'\" te
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common
.\" Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this
.\" file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or
.\" http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific
.\" language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and
.\" include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add
.\" the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets
.\" "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright
.\" [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2021 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\" Copyright 2025 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd November 3, 2025
.Dt DLPI_PROMISCON 3DLPI
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dlpi_promiscon ,
.Nm dlpi_promiscoff
.Nd enable or disable DLPI promiscuous mode
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libdlpi
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libdlpi.h
.Ft int
.Fo dlpi_promiscon
.Fa dlpi_handle_t dh
.Fa uint_t level
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo dlpi_promiscoff
.Fa dlpi_handle_t dh
.Fa uint_t level
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn dlpi_promiscon
enables promiscuous mode on a
.Xr dlpi 4P
link instance associated with a DLPI handle
.Fa dh ,
at the specified
.Fa level .
Multiple levels can be combined; the new level is enabled in addition to any
previously enabled levels.
After enabling promiscuous mode, the caller will be able to receive all
messages destined for the DLPI link instance at the specified
.Fa level .
This operation can be performed in any DLPI state of a handle.
.Pp
.Fn dlpi_promiscoff
disables promiscuous mode on a
.Xr dlpi 4P
link instance associated with DLPI handle
.Fa dh ,
at the specified level.
This operation can be performed in any DLPI state of a handle in
which promiscuous mode is enabled at the specified
.Fa level .
.Pp
The
.Fa level
modes are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv DL_PROMISC_PHYS
Promiscuous mode at the physical level
.It Dv DL_PROMISC_SAP
Promiscuous mode at the SAP level
.It Dv DL_PROMISC_MULTI
Promiscuous mode for all multicast addresses
.It Dv DL_PROMISC_RX_ONLY
When one or more of the above promiscuous modes is also enabled, this option
modifies it so that only inbound traffic is received.
Note that inbound here is relative to the specific DLPI link instance.
Any outgoing traffic sent via the same link will be excluded but not other
outgoing traffic, e.g., from a VNIC atop it.
When using this level, it is recommended to set it before the others.
.It Dv DL_PROMISC_INCOMING
When one or more of the above promiscuous modes is also enabled, this option
modifies it so that only inbound traffic is received.
When using this level, it is recommended to set it before the others.
.It Dv DL_PROMISC_OUTGOING
When one or more of the above promiscuous modes is also enabled, this option
modifies it so that only outbound traffic is received.
When using this level, it is recommended to set it before the others.
.El
.Pp
Note that only one of
.Dv DL_PROMISC_RX_ONLY ,
.Dv DL_PROMISC_INCOMING
or
.Dv DL_PROMISC_OUTGOING
may be enabled at a time.
Trying to enable one of
.Dv DL_PROMISC_RX_ONLY ,
.Dv DL_PROMISC_INCOMING
or
.Dv DL_PROMISC_OUTGOING
while another is active will result in an error.
To switch between them, you must first call
.Fn dlpi_promiscoff
to turn off the current one before passing the desired one to
.Fn dlpi_promiscon .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
On successful completion,
.Fn dlpi_promiscon
and
.Fn dlpi_promiscoff
return
.Dv DLPI_SUCCESS .
If
.Dv DL_SYSERR
is returned,
.Va errno
contains the specific UNIX system error value.
Otherwise, a DLPI error value defined in
.In sys/dlpi.h ,
or an error value listed in the following section is returned.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er DLPI_EBADMSG
Bad DLPI message
.It Er DLPI_EINHANDLE
Invalid DLPI handle
.It Er DLPI_EINVAL
Invalid argument
.It Er DLPI_ETIMEDOUT
Operation timed out
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libdlpi 3LIB ,
.Xr dlpi 4P ,
.Xr attributes 7
