'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLPI_GET_PHYSADDR 3DLPI "Aug 22, 2007"
.SH NAME
dlpi_get_physaddr \- get physical address using DLPI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_get_physaddr\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fR\fIaddrp\fR,\fBsize_t *\fR\fIaddrlenp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_get_physaddr()\fR function gets a physical address from the
\fBDLPI\fR link instance associated with \fBDLPI\fR handle \fIdh\fR. The
retrieved address depends upon \fItype\fR, which can be:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDL_FACT_PHYS_ADDR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Factory physical address
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDL_CURR_PHYS_ADDR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Current physical address
.RE

.sp
.LP
The operation can be performed in any \fBDLPI\fR state of \fIdh\fR.
.sp
.LP
The caller must ensure that \fIaddrp\fR is at least \fBDLPI_PHYSADDR_MAX\fR
bytes in size and \fIaddrlenp\fR must contain the length of \fIaddrp\fR. Upon
success, \fIaddrp\fR contains the specified physical address, and
\fIaddrlenp\fR contains the physical address length. If a physical address is
not available, \fIaddrp\fR is not filled in and \fIaddrlenp\fR is set to zero.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned,
\fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
\fBDLPI\fR error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or an error value listed
in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EBADMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Invalid \fBDLPI\fR handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Invalid argument
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
\fBDLPI\fR operation timed out
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdlpi_set_physaddr\fR(3DLPI), \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
