'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLPI_SET_TIMEOUT 3DLPI "Aug 21, 2007"
.SH NAME
dlpi_set_timeout \- set DLPI handle timeout interval
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fIdlpi_set_timeout\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsec\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_set_timeout()\fR function sets the timeout interval to \fIsec\fR
seconds on DLPI handle \fIdh\fR. This timeout is used by \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB)
functions that require explicit acknowledgment from the associated DLPI link,
and bounds the number of seconds that a function will wait for an
acknowledgment before returning \fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR. Except for
\fBdlpi_recv\fR(3DLPI), which has a \fItimeout\fR argument, any function that
is documented to return \fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR can take up to the \fItimeout\fR
interval to complete.
.sp
.LP
Callers that do not require an upper bound on timeouts are strongly encouraged
to never call \fBdlpi_set_timeout()\fR, and allow \fBlibdlpi\fR to use its
default \fItimeout\fR value. The default \fItimeout\fR value is intended to
ensure that \fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR will only be returned if the DLPI link has
truly become unresponsive. The default \fItimeout\fR value is intended to
ensure that \fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR will be returned only if the DLPI link has
truly become unresponsive.
.sp
.LP
Callers that do require an explicit upper bound can specify that value at any
time by calling \fBdlpi_set_timeout()\fR.  However, note that values less than
5 seconds may trigger spurious failures on certain DLPI links and systems under
high load, and thus are discouraged. Attempts to set the \fItimeout\fR value to
less than 1 second will fail.
.sp
.LP
If \fIsec\fR is set to \fBDLPI_DEF_TIMEOUT\fR, the default \fItimeout\fR value
is restored.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. Otherwise, a \fBDLPI\fR error
value is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Invalid \fBDLPI\fR handle
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
