'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLPI_UNBIND 3DLPI "Aug 22, 2007"
.SH NAME
dlpi_unbind \- unbind DLPI handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_unbind\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_unbind()\fR function unbinds to bind the \fBDLPI\fR handle \fIdh\fR
from the bound \fBSAP\fR. The handle must be in the \fBDL_IDLE\fR \fBDLPI\fR
state and upon success, the handle transitions to the \fBDL_UNBOUND\fR state.
.sp
.LP
Upon success, the caller will no longer be able to send or receive data using
the \fBDLPI\fR link associated with \fIdh\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned,
\fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
\fBDLPI\fR error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or an error value
\fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR will be returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EBADMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Invalid DLPI handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
\fBDLPI\fR operation timed out
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdlpi_bind\fR(3DLPI), \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
