'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLPI_ENABMULTI 3DLPI "Aug 22, 2007"
.SH NAME
dlpi_enabmulti, dlpi_disabmulti \- enable or disable DLPI multicast messages
for an address
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_enabmulti\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIaddrp\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIaddrlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_disabmulti\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIaddrp\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIaddrlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_enabmulti()\fR function enables reception of messages destined to
the multicast address pointed to by \fIaddrp\fR on the \fBDLPI\fR link instance
associated with \fBDLPI\fR handle \fIdh\fR. The \fBDLPI\fR link instance will
pass up only those messages destined for enabled multicast addresses. This
operation can be performed in any \fBDLPI\fR state of a handle.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_disabmulti()\fR function disables a specified multicast address
pointed to by \fIaddrp\fR on the \fBDLPI\fR link instance associated with
\fBDLPI\fR handle \fIdh\fR. This operation can be performed in any \fBDLPI\fR
state of a handle.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned,
\fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
\fBDLPI\fR error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or \fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR is
returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EBADMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Invalid \fBDLPI\fR handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Invalid argument
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
\fBDLPI\fR operation timed out
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
