'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLPI_BIND 3DLPI "Aug 22, 2007"
.SH NAME
dlpi_bind \- bind DLPI handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-ldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_bind\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIsap\fR, \fBuint_t *\fR\fIboundsap\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_bind()\fR function attempts to bind the \fBDLPI\fR handle \fIdh\fR
to the \fBSAP\fR \fIsap\fR. The handle must be in the \fBDL_UNBOUND\fR
\fBDLPI\fR state and will transition to the \fBDL_IDLE\fR \fBDLPI\fR state upon
success. Some \fBDLPI\fR \fBMAC\fR types can bind to a different \fBSAP\fR than
the \fBSAP\fR requested, in which case \fIboundsap\fR returns the actual bound
\fBSAP\fR. If \fIboundsap\fR is set to \fBNULL\fR, \fBdlpi_bind()\fR fails if
the bound \fBSAP\fR does not match the requested \fBSAP\fR. If the caller does
not care which \fBSAP\fR is chosen, \fBDLPI_ANY_SAP\fR can be specified for
\fIsap\fR. This is primarily useful in conjunction with \fBdlpi_promiscon()\fR
and \fBDL_PROMISC_SAP\fR to receive traffic from all \fBSAP\fRs. If
\fBDLPI_ANY_SAP\fR is specified, any transmitted messages must explicitly
specify a \fBSAP\fR using \fBdlpi_send\fR(3DLPI).
.sp
.LP
Upon success, the caller can use \fBdlpi_recv\fR(3DLPI) to receive data
matching the bound \fBSAP\fR that is sent to the \fBDLPI\fR link associated
with \fIdh\fR. In addition, the caller can use \fBdlpi_send\fR(3DLPI) to send
data over the bound \fBSAP\fR address associated with \fBDLPI\fR handle
\fIdh\fR. The physical address of the bound handle can be retrieved with
\fBdlpi_info\fR(3DLPI).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned,
\fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a
\fBDLPI\fR error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or an error value listed
in the following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EBADMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Bad DLPI message
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Invalid \fBDLPI\fR handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ETIMEDOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
\fBDLPI\fR operation timed out
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EUNAVAILSAP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Unavailable \fBDLPI\fR \fBSAP\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdlpi_info\fR(3DLPI), \fBdlpi_recv\fR(3DLPI), \fBdlpi_send\fR(3DLPI),
\fBdlpi_unbind\fR(3DLPI), \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
