'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLPI_DISABNOTIFY 3DLPI "Sep 21, 2007"
.SH NAME
dlpi_disabnotify \- disable DLPI notification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -\fBldlpi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libdlpi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdlpi_disabnotify\fR(\fBdlpi_handle_t\fR \fIdh\fR, \fBdlpi_notifyid_t\fR \fIid\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fR\fIargp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlpi_disabnotify()\fR function disables the notification registration
associated with identifier \fIid\fR. If \fIargp\fR is not NULL, the argument
\fIarg\fR that was passed to \fBdlpi_enabnotify\fR(3DLPI) during registration
is also returned. This operation can be performed in any DLPI state of a
handle.
.sp
.LP
Closing the DLPI handle \fIdh\fR will also remove all associated callback
functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBDLPI_SUCCESS\fR is returned. If \fBDL_SYSERR\fR is returned,
\fBerrno\fR contains the specific UNIX system error value. Otherwise, a DLPI
error value defined in \fB<sys/dlpi.h>\fR or an error value listed in the
following section is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
A DLPI handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_EINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
An argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_ENOTEIDINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The DLPI notification ID is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDLPI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The DLPI operation failed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdlpi_enabnotify\fR(3DLPI), \fBlibdlpi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
