'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAPILIBRARYSUPPORTEDCALL 3PAPI "Jan 17, 2007"
.SH NAME
papiLibrarySupportedCall, papiLibrarySupportedCalls \- determine if a PAPI
function returns valid data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpapi\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <papi.h>

\fBchar\fR \fBpapiLibrarySupportedCall\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar **\fR\fBpapiLibrarySupportedCalls\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
the name of a PAPI function
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpapiLibrarySupportedCall()\fR function queries to determine if a
particular PAPI function returns valid data other than
\fBPAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpapiLibrarySupportedCalls()\fR function enumerates all PAPI functions
that return valid data other than \fBPAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBpapiLibrarySupportedCall()\fR function returns \fBPAPI_TRUE\fR if the
specified PAPI function returns valid data other than
\fBPAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR.  Otherwise, \fBPAPI_FALSE\fR is returned.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpapiLibrarySupportedCalls()\fR function returns a null-terminated array
of strings listing all of the PAPI functions that return valid data other than
\fBPAPI_OPERATION_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR. Otherwise, \fINULL\fR is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Volatile
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibpapi\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
