#
# Copyright 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
# Use is subject to license terms.
#
# CDDL HEADER START
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
# Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
# (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
# with the License.
#
# You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
# or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions
# and limitations under the License.
#
# When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
# file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
# If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
# fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
# information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
#
# CDDL HEADER END
#
#ident	"%Z%%M%	%I%	%E% SMI"
#
# Sun::Solaris::Task documentation.
# 

=head1 NAME

Sun::Solaris::Task - Perl interface to Tasks

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Sun::Solaris::Task qw(:ALL);
 my $taskid = gettaskid();

This module provides wrappers for the C<gettaskid(2)> and C<settaskid(2)>
system calls.

=head2 Constants

C<TASK_NORMAL>, C<TASK_FINAL>.

=head2 Functions

B<C<settaskid($project, $flags)>>

The C<$project> parameter must be a valid project ID and the C<$flags>
parameter must be C<TASK_NORMAL> or C<TASK_FINAL>. The parameters are passed
through directly to the underlying C<settaskid()> system call. The new task ID
is returned if the call succeeds. On failure -1 is returned.

C<gettaskid()>

This function returns the numeric task ID of the calling process, or C<undef>
if the underlying C<gettaskid()> system call is unsuccessful.

=head2 Class methods

None.

=head2 Object methods

None.

=head2 Exports

By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be
used to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:

 :SYSCALLS    settaskid() and gettaskid()

 :CONSTANTS   TASK_NORMAL and TASK_FINAL

 :ALL         :SYSCALLS and :CONSTANTS

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

See C<attributes(5)> for descriptions of the following attributes:

  ___________________________________________________________
 |       ATTRIBUTE TYPE        |       ATTRIBUTE VALUE       |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Availability                | CPAN (http://www.cpan.org)  |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Interface Stability         | Evolving                    |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<gettaskid(2)>, C<settaskid(2)>, C<attributes(5)>
