'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_RELEASE_CRED 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_release_cred \- discard a credential handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_cred_id_t *\fR\fIcred_handle\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_cred()\fR function informs the \fBGSS-API\fR that the
specified credential handle is no longer required by the application and frees
the associated resources. The \fIcred_handle\fR parameter is set to
\fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR when this call completes successfully.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_release_cred()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcred_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
An opaque handle that identifies the credential to be released. If
\fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR is specified, the \fBgss_release_cred()\fR function
will complete successfully, but it will do nothing.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_cred()\fR may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The referenced credentials cannot be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
