'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_VERIFY_MIC 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_verify_mic \- verify integrity of a received message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_verify_mic\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_ctx_id_t\fR \fIcontext_handle\fR, \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fImessage_buffer\fR,
     \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fItoken_buffer\fR, \fBgss_qop_t *\fR\fIqop_state\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_verify_mic()\fR function verifies that a cryptographic \fBMIC\fR,
contained in the token parameter, fits the supplied message. The
\fIqop_state\fR parameter allows a message recipient to determine the strength
of protection that was applied to the message.
.sp
.LP
Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted by
\fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS) to provide secure framing, the \fBGSS-API\fR supports the
calculation and verification of \fBMIC\fRs over zero-length messages.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_verify_mic()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The status code returned by the underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Identifies the context on which the message arrived.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImessage_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The message to be verified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItoken_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The token associated with the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIqop_state\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specifies the quality of protection gained from the \fBMIC\fR. Specify
\fBNULL\fR if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_verify_mic()\fR may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_DEFECTIVE_TOKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The token failed consistency checks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_SIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fBMIC\fR was incorrect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_DUPLICATE_TOKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The token was valid and contained a correct \fBMIC\fR for the message, but it
had already been processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_OLD_TOKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The token was valid and contained a correct \fBMIC\fR for the message, but it
is too old to check for duplication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_UNSEQ_TOKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The token was valid and contained a correct \fBMIC\fR for the message, but it
has been verified out of sequence; a later token has already been received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_GAP_TOKEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The token was valid and contained a correct \fBMIC\fR for the message, but it
has been verified out of sequence; an earlier expected token has not yet been
received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CONTEXT_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The context has already expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CONTEXT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIcontext_handle\fR parameter did not identify a valid context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
