'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_RELEASE_OID 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_release_oid \- release an object identifier
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fB\fR\fBgss_release_oid\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR, \fBconst gss_OID *\fR\fIoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_oid()\fR function deletes an \fBOID\fR. Such an \fBOID\fR
might have been created with \fBgss_str_to_oid()\fR.
.sp
.LP
Since creating and deleting individual \fBOID\fRs is discouraged, it is
preferable to use \fBgss_release_oid_set()\fR if it is necessary to deallocate
a set of \fBOID\fRs.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_release_oid()\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The object identifier of the mechanism to be deleted.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_oid()\fR returns one of the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_str_to_oid\fR(3GSS),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
This function is included for compatibility only with programs using earlier
versions of the \fBGSS-API\fR and should not be used for new programs. Other
implementations of the \fBGSS-API\fR might not support this function, so
portable programs should not rely on it. Sun might not continue to support this
function.
