'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_RELEASE_OID_SET 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_release_oid_set \- free storage associated with a GSS-API-generated
gss_OID_set object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(\fBOM_uint32  *\fR\fIminor_status\fR, \fBgss_OID_set  *\fR\fIset\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_oid_set()\fR function frees storage associated with a
\fBGSS-API\fR-generated \fBgss_OID_set\fR object. The \fIset\fR parameter must
refer to an \fBOID\fR-set that was returned from a \fBGSS-API\fR function. The
\fBgss_release_oid_set()\fR function will free the storage associated with each
individual member \fBOID\fR, the \fBOID\fR \fIset\fR's elements array, and
\fBgss_OID_set_desc\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_OID_set\fR is set to \fBGSS_C_NO_OID_SET\fR on successful completion of
this function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_release_oid_set()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A mechanism-specific status code
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Storage associated with the \fBgss_OID_set\fR will be deleted
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_oid_set()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
