'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_INQUIRE_CRED 3GSS "Jan 30, 2004"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_cred \- obtain information about a credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_cred\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_cred_id_t\fR \fIcred_handle\fR,\fBgss_name_t *\fR\fIname\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIlifetime\fR, \fBgss_cred_usage_t *\fR\fIcred_usage\fR,
     \fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fImechanisms\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_inquire_cred()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcred_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Handle that refers to the target credential. Specify \fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR
to inquire about the default initiator principal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Name of the identity asserted by the credential. Any storage associated with
this name should be freed by the application after use by a call to
\fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlifetime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Number of seconds for which the credential remains valid. If the credential has
expired, this parameter will be set to zero. Specify \fBNULL\fR if the
parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcred_usage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Flag that indicates how a credential is used. The \fIcred_usage\fR parameter
may contain one of the following values: \fBGSS_C_INITIATE\fR,
\fBGSS_C_ACCEPT\fR, or \fBGSS_C_BOTH\fR. Specify \fBNULL\fR if this parameter
is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImechanisms\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Set of mechanisms supported by the credential. Storage for the returned
\fBOID\fR-set must be freed by the application after use by a call to
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS). Specify \fBNULL\fR if this parameter is not
required.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBgss_inquire_cred()\fR function to obtain information about a
credential.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_cred()\fR function can return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The referenced credentials could not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_DEFECTIVE_CREDENTIAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The referenced credentials were invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The referenced credentials have expired. If the \fIlifetime\fR parameter was
not passed as \fBNULL\fR, it will be set to \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined. The mechanism-specific status code reported by means of
the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS),
\fBlibgss\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
