'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_IMPORT_NAME 3GSS "Jun 30, 2005"
.SH NAME
gss_import_name \- convert a contiguous string name to GSS_API internal format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_import_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR \fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fIinput_name_buffer\fR, \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fIinput_name_type\fR,
     \fBgss_name_t *\fR\fIoutput_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_import_name()\fR function converts a contiguous string name to
internal form. In general, the internal name returned by means of the
\fIoutput_name\fR parameter will not be a mechanism name; the exception to this
is if the \fIinput_name_type\fR indicates that the contiguous string provided
by means of the \fIinput_name_buffer\fR parameter is of type
\fBGSS_C_NT_EXPORT_NAME\fR, in which case, the returned internal name will be a
mechanism name for the mechanism that exported the name.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_import_name()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Status code returned by the underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinput_name_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The \fBgss_buffer_desc\fR structure containing the name to be imported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinput_name_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
A \fBgss_OID\fR that specifies the format that the \fIinput_name_buffer\fR is
in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoutput_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The \fBgss_name_t\fR structure to receive the returned name in internal form.
Storage associated with this name must be freed by the application after use
with a call to \fBgss_release_name()\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_import_name()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fBgss_import_name()\fR function completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIinput_name_type\fR was unrecognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIinput_name\fR parameter could not be interpreted as a name of the
specified type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_MECH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIinput_name_type\fR was \fBGSS_C_NT_EXPORT_NAME\fR, but the mechanism
contained within the \fIinput_name\fR is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
