'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_RELEASE_BUFFER 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_release_buffer \- free buffer storage allocated by a GSS-API function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_release_buffer\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR, \fBgss_buffer_t\fR\fIbuffer\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
 The \fBgss_release_buffer()\fR function frees buffer storage allocated by a
\fBGSS-API\fR function. The \fBgss_release_buffer()\fR function also zeros the
length field in the descriptor to which the buffer parameter refers, while the
\fBGSS-API\fR function sets the pointer field in the descriptor to \fBNULL\fR.
Any buffer object returned by a \fBGSS-API\fR function may be passed to
\fBgss_release_buffer()\fR, even if no storage is associated with the buffer.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_release_buffer()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIbuffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The storage associated with the buffer will be deleted.  The
\fBgss_buffer_desc()\fR object will not be freed; however, its length field
will be zeroed.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_release_buffer()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
