'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_DUPLICATE_NAME 3GSS "Jan 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_duplicate_name \- create a copy of an internal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR]  \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_duplicate_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIsrc_name\fR,\fBgss_name_t *\fR\fIdest_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_duplicate_name()\fR function creates an exact duplicate of the
existing internal name \fIsrc_name\fR.  The new \fIdest_name\fR will be
independent of the \fIsrc_name\fR. The \fIsrc_name\fR and \fIdest_name\fR must
both be released, and the release of one does not affect the validity of the
other.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_duplicate_name()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsrc_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Internal name to be duplicated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdest_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The resultant copy of \fIsrc_name\fR.  Storage associated with this name must
be freed by the application after use with a call to
\fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_duplicate_name()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The \fIsrc_name\fR parameter was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
