'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_STR_TO_OID 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_str_to_oid \- convert a string to an OID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_str_to_oid\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fIoid_str\fR,\fBgss_OID *\fR\fIoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_str_to_oid()\fR function converts a string to a \fBGSS-API\fR
\fBOID\fR structure. You can use the function to convert a simple string to an
\fBOID\fR to . This function is a convenience function, as is its complementary
function, \fBgss_oid_to_str\fR(3GSS).
.sp
.LP
\fBOID\fRs created with \fBgss_str_to_oid()\fR must be deallocated through
\fBgss_release_oid\fR(3GSS), if available. If an \fBOID\fR must be created, use
\fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS) and \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS) to
create it. \fBOID\fRs created in this way must be released with
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS). However, it is strongly suggested that
applications use the default \fBGSS-API\fR mechanism instead of creating an
\fBOID\fR for a specific mechanism.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_str_to_oid()\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Status code returned by underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
\fBGSS-API\fR \fBOID\fR structure to receive converted string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoid_str\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
String to convert.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_str_to_oid()\fR returns one of the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CALL_INACCESSIBLE_READ\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required input parameter could not be read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CALL_INACCESSIBLE_WRITE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A required output parameter could not be written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS),
\fBgss_oid_to_str\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
This function is included for compatibility only with programs using earlier
versions of the \fBGSS-API\fR and should not be used for new programs. Other
implementations of the \fBGSS-API\fR might not support this function, so
portable programs should not rely on it. Sun might not continue to support this
function.
