'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_DELETE_SEC_CONTEXT 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_delete_sec_context \- delete a GSS-API security context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_delete_sec_context\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_ctx_id_t *\fR\fIcontext_handle\fR,\fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIoutput_token\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR function to delete a security context.
The \fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR function will delete the local data
structures associated with the specified security context.  You may not obtain
further security services that use the context specified by
\fIcontext_handle\fR.
.sp
.LP
In addition to deleting established security contexts,
\fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR will delete any half-built security contexts
that result from incomplete sequences of calls to
\fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS) and  \fBgss_accept_sec_context\fR(3GSS).
.sp
.LP
The Solaris implementation of the \fBGSS-API\fR retains the \fIoutput_token\fR
parameter for compatibility with version 1 of the \fBGSS-API\fR.  Both peer
applications should invoke \fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR, passing the value
\fBGSS_C_NO_BUFFER\fR to the \fIoutput_token\fR parameter; this indicates that
no token is required.  If the application passes a valid buffer to
\fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR, it will return a zero-length token, indicating
that no token should be transferred by the application.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Context handle identifying specific context to delete. After deleting the
context, the \fBGSS-API\fR will set \fIcontext_handle\fR to
\fBGSS_C_NO_CONTEXT\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoutput_token\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A token to be sent to remote applications that instructs them to delete the
context.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_delete_sec_context()\fR may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CONTEXT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
No valid context was supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_accept_sec_context\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
