'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_EXPORT_NAME 3GSS "Jan 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_export_name \- convert a mechanism name to export form
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_export_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIexported_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_export_name()\fR function allows a \fBGSS-API\fR internal name to be
converted into a mechanism-specific name. The function produces a canonical
contiguous string representation of a mechanism name, suitable for direct
comparison, with \fBmemory\fR(3C), or for use in authorization functions,
matching entries in an access-control list.  The \fIinput_name\fR parameter
must specify a valid mechanism name, that is, an internal name generated by
\fBgss_accept_sec_context\fR(3GSS) or by \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(3GSS).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_export_name()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinput_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The mechanism name to be exported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIexported_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The canonical contiguous string form of \fIinput_name\fR. Storage associated
with this string must freed by the application after use with
\fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_export_name()\fR function may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NAME_NOT_MN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The provided internal name was not a mechanism name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_accept_sec_context\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(3GSS),
\fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS)\fBmemory\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
