'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_INQUIRE_NAMES_FOR_MECH 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_names_for_mech \- list the name-types supported by the specified
mechanism
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_names_for_mech\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImechanism\fR,\fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fIname_types\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_names_for_mech()\fR function returns the set of name-types
supported by the specified mechanism.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_inquire_names_for_mech()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImechanism\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The mechanism to be interrogated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname_types\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Set of name-types supported by the specified mechanism.  The returned \fBOID\fR
set must be freed by the application after use with a call to
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_names_for_mech()\fR function may return the following
values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
