'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_CREATE_EMPTY_OID_SET 3GSS "Jan 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_create_empty_oid_set \- create an object-identifier set containing no
object identifiers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fIoid_set\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set()\fR function creates an object-identifier set
containing no object identifiers to which members may be subsequently added
using the \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS) function.  These functions can be
used to construct sets of mechanism object identifiers for input to
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Mechanism-specific status code
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoid_set\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Empty object identifier set. The function will allocate the
\fBgss_OID_set_desc\fR object, which the  application must free after use with
a call to \fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set()\fR function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(3GSS),
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
