'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_INQUIRE_MECHS_FOR_NAME 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_mechs_for_name \- list mechanisms that support the specified
name-type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lgss\fR [\fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_name_t\fR \fIinput_name\fR,\fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fImech_types\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name()\fR function returns the set of mechanisms
supported by the \fBGSS-API\fR that may be able to process the specified name.
Each mechanism returned will recognize at least one element within the internal
name.
.sp
.LP
Some implementations of the \fBGSS-API\fR may perform this test by checking
nametype information contained within the passed name and registration
information provided by individual mechanisms.  This means that the
\fImech_types\fR set returned by the function may indicate that a particular
mechanism will understand the name, when in fact the mechanism would refuse to
accept the name as input to \fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(3GSS),
\fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), or
\fBgss_add_cred\fR(3GSS), due to some property of the name itself rather than
the name-type. Therefore, this function should be used only as a pre-filter for
a call to a subsequent mechanism-specific function.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name()\fR follow in
alphabetical order:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinput_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The name to which the inquiry relates.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImech_types\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Set of mechanisms that may support the specified name.  The returned \fBOID\fR
set must be freed by the caller after use with a call to
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name()\fR function may return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIinput_name\fR parameter was ill-formed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_NAMETYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIinput_name\fR parameter contained an invalid or unsupported type of
name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_add_cred\fR(3GSS),
\fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_init_sec_context\fR(3GSS),
\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
