'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_ADD_OID_SET_MEMBER 3GSS "Aug 16, 2007"
.SH NAME
gss_add_oid_set_member \- add an object identifier to an object identifier set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImember_oid\fR, \fBgss_OID_set *\fR\fIoid_set\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_add_oid_set_member()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImember_oid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Object identifier to be copied into the set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoid_set\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Set in which the object identifier should be inserted.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_add_oid_set_member()\fR function adds an object identifier to an
object identifier set. You should use this function in conjunction with
\fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS) when constructing a set of mechanism
\fBOID\fRs for input to \fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS). The \fIoid_set\fR
parameter must refer to an \fBOID\fR-set created by \fBGSS-API\fR, that is, a
set returned by \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS).
.sp
.LP
The \fBGSS-API\fR creates a copy of the \fImember_oid\fR and inserts this copy
into the set, expanding the storage allocated to the \fBOID\fR-set elements
array, if necessary.  New members are always added to the end of the OID set's
elements. If the \fImember_oid\fR is already present, the \fIoid_set\fR should
remain unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_add_oid_set_member()\fR function can return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR(3GSS), \fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR(3GSS),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
