'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_WRAP 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_wrap \- attach a cryptographic message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_wrap\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_ctx_id_t\fR \fIcontext_handle\fR, \fBint\fR \fIconf_req_flag\fR,
     \fBgss_qop_t\fR \fIqop_req\fR, \fBconst gss_buffer_t\fR \fIinput_message_buffer\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIconf_state\fR, \fBgss_buffer_t\fR \fIoutput_message_buffer\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_wrap()\fR function attaches a cryptographic \fBMIC\fR and optionally
encrypts the specified \fIinput_message\fR. The \fIoutput_message\fR contains
both the \fBMIC\fR and the message. The \fIqop_req\fR parameter allows a choice
between several cryptographic algorithms, if supported by the chosen mechanism.
.sp
.LP
Since some application-level protocols may wish to use tokens emitted by
\fBgss_wrap()\fR to provide secure framing, the \fBGSS-API\fR supports the
wrapping of zero-length messages.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_wrap()\fR follow:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The status code returned by the underlying mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Identifies the context on which the message will be sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconf_req_flag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
If the value of \fIconf_req_flag\fR is non-zero, both confidentiality and
integrity services are requested. If the value is zero, then only integrity
service is requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIqop_req\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies the required quality of protection. A mechanism-specific default may
be requested by setting \fIqop_req\fR to \fBGSS_C_QOP_DEFAULT\fR. If an
unsupported protection strength is requested, \fBgss_wrap()\fR will return a
\fImajor_status\fR of \fBGSS_S_BAD_QOP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinput_message_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The message to be protected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconf_state\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
If the value of \fIconf_state\fR is non-zero, confidentiality, data origin
authentication, and integrity services have been applied. If the value is zero,
then integrity services have been applied. Specify \fBNULL\fR if this parameter
is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoutput_message_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The buffer to receive the protected message. Storage associated with this
message must be freed by the application after use with a call to
\fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_wrap()\fR may return the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CONTEXT_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The context has already expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CONTEXT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIcontext_handle\fR parameter did not identify a valid context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_QOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The specified \fBQOP\fR is not supported by the mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_buffer\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
