'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_INQUIRE_CRED_BY_MECH 3GSS "Aug 15, 2007"
.SH NAME
gss_inquire_cred_by_mech \- obtain per-mechanism information about a credential
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_inquire_cred_by_mech\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_cred_id_t\fR \fIcred_handle\fR,\fBconst gss_OID\fR \fImech_type\fR,
     \fBgss_name_t *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIinitiator_lifetime\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIacceptor_lifetime\fR, \fBgss_cred_usage_t *\fR\fIcred_usage\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIacceptor_lifetime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The number of seconds that the credential is capable of accepting security
contexts under the specified mechanism. If the credential can no longer be used
to accept contexts, or if the credential usage for this mechanism is
\fBGSS_C_INITIATE\fR, this parameter will be set to \fB0\fR. Specify \fBNULL\fR
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcred_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A handle that refers to the target credential. Specify
\fBGSS_C_NO_CREDENTIAL\fR to inquire about the default initiator principal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcred_usage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
How the credential may be used with the specified mechanism. The
\fIcred_usage\fR parameter may contain one of the following values:
\fBGSS_C_INITIATE\fR, \fBGSS_C_ACCEPT\fR, or \fBGSS_C_BOTH\fR. Specify
\fBNULL\fR if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinitiator_lifetime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The number of seconds that the credential is capable of initiating security
contexts under the specified mechanism. If the credential can no longer be used
to initiate contexts, or if the credential usage for this mechanism is
\fBGSS_C_ACCEPT\fR, this parameter will be set to \fB0\fR. Specify \fBNULL\fR
if this parameter is not required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImech_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The mechanism for which the information should be returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A mechanism specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The name whose identity the credential asserts. Any storage associated with
this \fIname\fR must be freed by the application after use by a call to
\fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_cred_by_mech()\fR function obtains per-mechanism information
about a credential.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_inquire_cred_by_mech()\fR function can return the following status
codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CREDENTIALS_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The credentials cannot be added because they have expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_DEFECTIVE_CREDENTIAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The referenced credentials are invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The referenced credentials cannot be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_UNAVAILABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fBgss_inquire_cred_by_mech()\fR function is not available for the
specified mechanism type.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_release_name\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
