'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GSS_WRAP_SIZE_LIMIT 3GSS "Jan 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
gss_wrap_size_limit \- allow application to determine maximum message size with
resulting output token of a specified maximum size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <gssapi/gssapi.h>

\fBOM_uint32\fR \fBgss_process_context_token\fR(\fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fIminor_status\fR,
     \fBconst gss_ctx_id_t\fR \fIcontext_handle\fR, \fBint\fR  \fIconf_req_flag\fR,
     \fBgss_qop_t\fR \fIqop_req\fR, \fBOM_uint32\fR \fIreq_output_size\fR,
     \fBOM_uint32 *\fR\fImax_input_size\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgss_wrap_size_limit()\fR function allows an application to determine the
maximum message size that, if presented to \fBgss_wrap()\fR with the same
\fIconf_req_flag\fR and \fIqop_req\fR parameters, results in an output token
containing no more than \fIreq_output_size\fR bytes. This call is intended for
use by applications that communicate over protocols that impose a maximum
message size. It enables the application to fragment messages prior to applying
protection. The \fBGSS-API\fR detects invalid \fBQOP\fR values when
\fBgss_wrap_size_limit()\fR is called. This routine guarantees only a maximum
message size, not the availability of specific \fBQOP\fR values for message
protection.
.sp
.LP
Successful completion of \fBgss_wrap_size_limit()\fR does not guarantee that
\fBgss_wrap()\fR will be able to protect a message of length
\fImax_input_size\fR bytes, since this ability might depend on the availability
of system resources at the time that \fBgss_wrap()\fR is called.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The parameter descriptions for \fBgss_wrap_size_limit()\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminor_status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A mechanism-specific status code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A handle that refers to the security over which the messages will be sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconf_req_flag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Indicates whether \fBgss_wrap()\fR will be asked to apply confidential
protection in addition to integrity protection. See \fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS) for
more details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIqop_req\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Indicates the level of protection that \fBgss_wrap()\fR will be asked to
provide.  See \fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS) for more details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIreq_output_size\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The desired maximum size for tokens emitted by \fBgss_wrap()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImax_input_size\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The maximum input message size that can be presented to \fBgss_wrap()\fR to
guarantee that the emitted token will be no larger than \fIreq_output_size\fR
bytes.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_wrap_size_limit()\fR returns one of the following status codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_COMPLETE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_NO_CONTEXT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The referenced context could not be accessed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_CONTEXT_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The context has expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_BAD_QOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The specified \fBQOP\fR is not supported by the mechanism.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGSS_S_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The underlying mechanism detected an error for which no specific \fBGSS\fR
status code is defined.  The mechanism-specific status code reported by means
of the \fIminor_status\fR parameter details the error condition.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgss_wrap\fR(3GSS), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
