'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH EDIT 1HAS "Jun 11, 2004"
.SH NAME
edit \- text editor (variant of ex for casual users)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/edit\fR [\fB-|\fR \fB-s\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-r\fR [\fIfilename\fR]]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-w\fR\fIn\fR] [\fB-C\fR]
     [+\fIcommand\fR | \fB-c\fR \fIcommand\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/edit\fR [\fB-|\fR \fB-s\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-r\fR [\fIfilename\fR]]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-w\fR\fIn\fR] [\fB-C\fR]
     [+\fIcommand\fR | \fB-c\fR \fIcommand\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/edit\fR [\fB-|\fR \fB-s\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-r\fR [\fIfilename\fR]]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItag\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-w\fR\fIn\fR] [\fB-C\fR]
     [+\fIcommand\fR | \fB-c\fR \fIcommand\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBedit\fR utility is a variant of the text editor \fBex\fR recommended for
new or casual users who wish to use a command-oriented editor. It operates
precisely as \fBex\fR with the following options automatically set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnovice\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
\fBON\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBreport\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
\fBON\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBshowmode\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
\fBON\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmagic\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
\fBOFF\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following brief introduction should help you get started with \fBedit\fR.
If you are using a \fBCRT\fR terminal you might want to learn about the display
editor \fBvi\fR.
.sp
.LP
To edit the contents of an existing file you begin with the command \fBedit
\fR\fIname\fR to the shell. \fBedit\fR makes a copy of the file that you can
then edit, and tells you how many lines and characters are in the file. To
create a new file, you also begin with the command \fBedit\fR with a filename:
\fBedit \fR\fIname\fR; the editor tells you it is a \fB[New File]\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBedit\fR command prompt is the colon (\fB:\fR), which you should see
after starting the editor. If you are editing an existing file, then you have
some lines in \fBedit\fR's buffer (its name for the copy of the file you are
editing). When you start editing, \fBedit\fR makes the last line of the file
the current line. Most commands to \fBedit\fR use the current line if you do
not tell them which line to use. Thus if you say \fBprint\fR (which can be
abbreviated \fBp\fR) and type carriage return (as you should after all
\fBedit\fR commands), the current line is printed. If you \fBdelete\fR
(\fBd\fR) the current line, \fBedit\fR prints the new current line, which is
usually the next line in the file. If you \fBdelete\fR the last line, then the
new last line becomes the current one.
.sp
.LP
If you start with an empty file or wish to add some new lines, then the
\fBappend\fR (\fBa\fR) command can be used. After you execute this command
(typing a carriage return after the word \fBappend\fR), \fBedit\fR reads lines
from your terminal until you type a line consisting of just a dot (\fB\&.\fR);
it places these lines after the current line. The last line you type then
becomes the current line. The \fBinsert\fR (\fBi\fR) command is like
\fBappend\fR, but places the lines you type before, rather than after, the
current line.
.sp
.LP
The \fBedit\fR utility numbers the lines in the buffer, with the first line
having number 1. If you execute the command \fB1\fR, then \fBedit\fR types the
first line of the buffer. If you then execute the command \fBd\fR, \fBedit\fR
deletes the first line, line 2 becomes line 1, and \fBedit\fR prints the
current line (the new line 1) so you can see where you are. In general, the
current line is always the last line affected by a command.
.sp
.LP
You can make a change to some text within the current line by using the
\fBsubstitute\fR (\fBs\fR) command: \fBs\fR/\fIold\fR\|/\fInew\fR/ where
\fIold\fR is the string of characters you want to replace and \fInew\fR is the
string of characters you want to replace \fIold\fR with.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfilename\fR (\fBf\fR) command tells you how many lines there are in the
buffer you are editing and says \fB[Modified]\fR if you have changed the
buffer. After modifying a file, you can save the contents of the file by
executing a \fBwrite\fR (\fBw\fR) command. You can leave the editor by issuing
a \fBquit\fR (\fBq\fR) command. If you run \fBedit\fR on a file, but do not
change it, it is not necessary (but does no harm) to \fBwrite\fR the file back.
If you try to \fBquit\fR from \fBedit\fR after modifying the buffer without
writing it out, you receive the message \fBNo write since last change (:quit!
overrides)\fR, and \fBedit\fR waits for another command. If you do not want to
write the buffer out, issue the \fBquit\fR command followed by an exclamation
point (\fBq!\fR). The buffer is then irretrievably discarded and you return to
the shell.
.sp
.LP
By using the \fBd\fR and \fBa\fR commands and giving line numbers to see lines
in the file, you can make any changes you want. You should learn at least a few
more things, however, if you use \fBedit\fR more than a few times.
.sp
.LP
The \fBchange\fR (\fBc\fR) command changes the current line to a sequence of
lines you supply (as in \fBappend\fR, you type lines up to a line consisting of
only a dot (\fB\&.\fR). You can tell \fBchange\fR to change more than one line
by giving the line numbers of the lines you want to change, that is,
\fB3,5c\fR. You can print lines this way too: \fB1,23p\fR prints the first 23
lines of the file.
.sp
.LP
The \fBundo\fR (\fBu\fR) command reverses the effect of the last command you
executed that changed the buffer. Thus if you execute a \fBsubstitute\fR
command that does not do what you want, type \fBu\fR and the old contents of
the line are restored. You can also \fBundo\fR an \fBundo\fR command.
\fBedit\fR gives you a warning message when a command affects more than one
line of the buffer. Note that commands such as \fBwrite\fR and \fBquit\fR
cannot be undone.
.sp
.LP
To look at the next line in the buffer, type carriage return. To look at a
number of lines, type \fB^D\fR (while holding down the control key, press
\fBd\fR) rather than carriage return. This shows you a half-screen of lines on
a \fBCRT\fR or 12 lines on a hardcopy terminal. You can look at nearby text by
executing the \fBz\fR command. The current line appears in the middle of the
text displayed, and the last line displayed becomes the current line; you can
get back to the line where you were before you executed the \fBz\fR command by
typing \fB\&''\fR. The \fBz\fR command has other options: \fBz\(mi\fR prints a
screen of text (or 24 lines) ending where you are; \fBz+\fR prints the next
screenful. If you want less than a screenful of lines, type \fBz.11\fR to
display five lines before and  five lines after the current line. (Typing
\fBz.\fR\fIn\fR, when \fIn\fR is an odd number, displays a total of \fIn\fR
lines, centered about the current line; when \fIn\fR is an even number, it
displays \fIn\fR\fB-1\fR lines, so that the lines displayed are centered around
the current line.) You can give counts after other commands; for example, you
can delete 5 lines starting with the current line with the command \fBd5\fR.
.sp
.LP
To find things in the file, you can use line numbers if you happen to know
them; since the line numbers change when you insert and delete lines this is
somewhat unreliable. You can search backwards and forwards in the file for
strings by giving commands of the form /\fItext\fR/ to search forward for
\fItext\fR or ?\fItext\fR? to search backward for \fItext\fR. If a search
reaches the end of the file without finding \fItext\fR, it wraps around and
continues to search back to the line where you are. A useful feature here is a
search of the form /^\fItext\fR/ which searches for \fItext\fR at the beginning
of a line. Similarly /\fItext\fR$/ searches for \fItext\fR at the end of a
line. You can leave off the trailing \fB/\fR or \fB?\fR in these commands.
.sp
.LP
The current line has the symbolic name dot (\fB\&.\fR); this is most useful in
a range of lines as in \fB\&.,$p\fR which prints the current line plus the rest
of the lines in the file. To move to the last line in the file, you can refer
to it by its symbolic name $. Thus the command \fB$d\fR deletes the last line
in the file, no matter what the current line is. Arithmetic with line
references is also possible. Thus the line \fB$\fR\fB-5\fR is the fifth before
the last and \fB\&.+20\fR is 20 lines after the current line.
.sp
.LP
You can find out the current line by typing \fB`.='\fR\|. This is useful if you
wish to move or copy a section of text within a file or between files. Find the
first and last line numbers you wish to copy or move. To move lines 10 through
20, type \fB10,20d a\fR to delete these lines from the file and place them in a
buffer named \fBa\fR. \fBedit\fR has 26 such buffers named \fBa\fR through
\fBz\fR. To put the contents of buffer \fBa\fR after the current line, type
\fBput a\fR. If you want to move or copy these lines to another file, execute
an \fBedit\fR (\fBe\fR) command after copying the lines; following the \fBe\fR
command with the name of the other file you wish to edit, that is, \fBedit
chapter2\fR. To copy lines without deleting them, use \fByank\fR (\fBy\fR) in
place of \fBd\fR. If the text you wish to move or copy is all within one file,
it is not necessary to use named buffers. For example, to move lines 10 through
20 to the end of the file, type \fB10,20m $\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
These options can be turned on or off using the \fBset\fR command in
\fBex\fR(1).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Encryption option; same as the \fB-x\fR option, except that \fBvi\fR simulates
the \fBC\fR command of \fBex\fR. The \fBC\fR command is like the \fBX\fR
command of \fBex\fR, except that all text read in is assumed to have been
encrypted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Set up for editing LISP programs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
List the name of all files saved as the result of an editor or system crash.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fBReadonly\fR mode; the \fBreadonly\fR flag is set, preventing accidental
overwriting of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI filename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Edit \fIfilename\fR after an editor or system crash. (Recovers the version of
\fIfilename\fR that was in the buffer when the crash occurred.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fI tag\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Edit the file containing the \fItag\fR and position the editor at its
definition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Start up in display editing state using \fBvi\fR. You can achieve the same
effect by simply typing the \fBvi\fR command itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Verbose. When \fBex\fR commands are read by means of standard input, the input
is echoed to standard error. This can be useful when processing \fBex\fR
commands within shell scripts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Encryption option; when used, \fBedit\fR simulates the \fBX\fR command of
\fBex\fR and prompts the user for a key. This key is used to encrypt and
decrypt text using the algorithm of the \fBcrypt\fR command. The \fBX\fR
command makes an educated guess to determine whether text read in is encrypted
or not. The temporary buffer file is encrypted also, using a transformed
version of the key typed in for the \fB-x\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Set the default window size to \fIn\fR. This is useful when using the editor
over a slow speed line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fIcommand\fR | \fB-c\fR\fI  command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Begin editing by executing the specified editor \fBcommand\fR (usually a search
or positioning command).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR | \fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Suppress all interactive user feedback.  This is useful when processing editor
scripts.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fIfilename\fR argument indicates one or more files to be edited.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/edit"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/edit"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg6/bin/edit"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBed\fR(1), \fBex\fR(1), \fBvi\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBXPG4\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The encryption options are provided with the Security Administration Utilities
package, which is available only in the United States.
