'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETACINFO 3BSM "Mar 31, 2005"
.SH NAME
getacinfo, getacdir, getacflg, getacmin, getacna, setac, endac \- get audit
control file information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR  [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetacdir\fR(\fB char *\fR\fIdir\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetacmin\fR(\fB int *\fR\fImin_val\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetacflg\fR(\fB char *\fR\fIauditstring\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetacna\fR(\fB char *\fR\fIauditstring\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsetac\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBendac\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
When first called, \fBgetacdir()\fR provides information about the first audit
directory in the \fBaudit_control\fR file. Thereafter, it returns the next
directory in the file. Successive calls list all the directories listed in
\fBaudit_control\fR(4) The \fIlen\fR argument specifies the length of the
buffer \fIdir\fR. On return, \fIdir\fR points to the directory entry.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacmin()\fR function reads the minimum value from the
\fBaudit_control\fR file and returns the value in \fImin_val\fR. The minimum
value specifies how full the file system to which the audit files are being
written can get before the script \fBaudit_warn\fR(1M) is invoked.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacflg()\fR function reads the system audit value from the
\fBaudit_control\fR file and returns the value in \fIauditstring\fR. The
\fIlen\fR argument specifies the length of the buffer \fIauditstring\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacna()\fR function reads the system audit value for non-attributable
audit events from the \fBaudit_control\fR file and returns the value in
\fIauditstring\fR. The \fIlen\fR argument specifies the length of the buffer
\fIauditstring\fR. Non-attributable events are events that cannot be attributed
to an individual user. The \fBinetd\fR(1M) utility and several other daemons
record non-attributable events.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetac()\fR function rewinds the \fBaudit_control\fR file to allow
repeated searches.
.sp
.LP
The \fBendac()\fR function closes the \fBaudit_control\fR file when processing
is complete.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/audit_control\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file containing default parameters read by the audit daemon, \fBauditd\fR(1M)
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacdir()\fR, \fBgetacflg()\fR, \fBgetacna()\fR, and \fBgetacmin()\fR
functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
on success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
on failure and set \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacmin()\fR and \fBgetacflg()\fR functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
on \fBEOF.\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacdir()\fR function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
on \fBEOF.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
if the directory search had to start from the beginning because one of the
other functions was called between calls to \fBgetacdir()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
if the directory entry format in the \fBaudit_control\fR file is incorrect.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetacdir()\fR, \fBgetacflg()\fR, and \fBgetacna()\fR functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
if the input buffer is too short to accommodate the record.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaudit_warn\fR(1M), \fBbsmconv\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M),
\fBaudit_control\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the
Solaris Auditing has been enabled.  See \fBbsmconv\fR(1M) for more information.
