'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETFAUDITFLAGS 3BSM "Mar 6, 2017"
.SH NAME
getfauditflags \- generate process audit state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lbsm\fR  \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetfauditflags\fR(\fBau_mask_t *\fR\fIusremasks\fR, \fBau_mask_t *\fR\fIusrdmasks\fR,
     \fBau_mask_t *\fR\fIlastmasks\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgetfauditflags()\fR function generates a process audit state by
combining the audit masks passed as parameters with the system audit masks.
.sp
.LP
The \fIusremasks\fR argument points to \fBau_mask_t\fR fields that contains two
values. The first value defines which events are always to be audited when they
succeed. The second value defines which events are always to be audited when
they fail.
.sp
.LP
The \fIusrdmasks\fR argument points to \fBau_mask_t\fR fields that contains two
values.  The first value defines which events are never to be audited when they
succeed. The second value defines which events are never to be audited when
they fail.
.sp
.LP
The output of this function is stored in \fIlastmasks\fR, a pointer of type
\fBau_mask_t\fR as well. The first value defines which events are to be audited
when they succeed and the second defines which events are to be audited when
they fail.
.sp
.LP
Both \fIusremasks\fR and \fIusrdmasks\fR override the values in the system
audit values.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBgetfauditflags()\fR returns 0. Otherwise it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBgetauditflags\fR(3BSM), \fBaudit.log\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
