'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_SET_ITEM 3PAM "Oct 31, 2006"
.SH NAME
pam_set_item, pam_get_item \- authentication information routines for PAM
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpam_set_item\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fR\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIitem_type\fR,
     \fBconst void *\fR\fIitem\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpam_get_item\fR(\fBconst pam_handle_t *\fR\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIitem_type\fR,
     \fBvoid **\fR\fIitem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_get_item()\fR and \fBpam_set_item()\fR functions allow applications
and \fBPAM\fR service modules to access and to update \fBPAM\fR information as
needed.  The information is specified by \fIitem_type\fR, and can be one of the
following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUSER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The authenticated user name.  Applications that are trusted to correctly
identify the authenticated user should set this item to the authenticated user
name. See NOTES and \fBpam_unix_cred\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The user authentication token.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_CONV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The  \fBpam_conv\fR structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_OLDAUTHTOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The old user authentication token.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_RESOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A semicolon-separated list of \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR pairs that represent the
set of resource controls for application by \fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM) or
\fBpam_open_session\fR(3PAM). See the individual service module definitions,
such as \fBpam_unix_cred\fR(5), for interpretations of the keys and values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_RHOST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The remote host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_RUSER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The \fBrlogin\fR/\fBrsh\fR untrusted remote user name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SERVICE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The service name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_TTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The tty name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The user name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_PROMPT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The default prompt used by  \fBpam_get_user()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The repository that contains the authentication token information.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The pam_repository structure is defined as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct pam_repository {
    char   *type;       /* Repository type, e.g., files, */
                        /* nis, ldap */
    void   *scope;      /* Optional scope information */
    size_t  scope_len;  /* length of scope information */
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fIitem_type\fR \fBPAM_SERVICE\fR can be set only by \fBpam_start()\fR and
is read-only to both applications and service modules.
.sp
.LP
For security reasons, the \fIitem_type\fR \fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR and
\fBPAM_OLDAUTHTOK\fR are available only to the module providers. The
authentication module, account module, and session management module should
treat \fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR as the current authentication token and ignore
\fBPAM_OLDAUTHTOK\fR. The password management module should treat
\fBPAM_OLDAUTHTOK\fR as the current authentication token and \fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR
as the new authentication token.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_set_item()\fR function is passed the authentication handle,
\fIpamh\fR, returned by \fBpam_start()\fR, a pointer to the object, \fIitem\fR,
and its type, \fIitem_type\fR. If successful, \fBpam_set_item()\fR copies the
item to an internal storage area allocated by the  authentication module and
returns  \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR. An item that had been previously set will be
overwritten by the new value.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_get_item()\fR function is passed the authentication handle,
\fIpamh\fR, returned by \fBpam_start()\fR, an \fIitem_type\fR, and the address
of the pointer, \fIitem\fR, which is assigned the address of the requested
object. The object data is valid until modified by a subsequent call to
\fBpam_set_item()\fR for the same \fIitem_type\fR, or unless it is modified by
any of the underlying service modules. If the item has not been previously set,
\fBpam_get_item()\fR returns a null pointer.  An \fIitem\fR retrieved by
\fBpam_get_item()\fR should not be modified or freed.  The item will be
released by \fBpam_end()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBpam_get_item()\fR returns  \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR; otherwise it
returns an error code. Refer to \fBpam\fR(3PAM) for information on error
related return values.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	 Stable
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.sp
.LP
The functions in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB) are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own \fBPAM\fR handle.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibpam\fR(3LIB), \fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_chauthtok\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_get_user\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_open_session\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_start\fR(3PAM), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBpam_unix_cred\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR \fIitem_type\fR is set and a service module does
not recognize the type, the service module does not process any information,
and returns \fBPAM_IGNORE\fR. If the \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR \fIitem_type\fR is
not set, a service module performs its default action.
.sp
.LP
PAM_AUSER is not intended as a replacement for PAM_USER.  It is expected to be
used to supplement PAM_USER when there is an authenticated user from a source
other than \fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM). Such sources could be \fBsshd\fR
host-based authentication, kerberized \fBrlogin\fR, and \fBsu\fR(1M).
