'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_GET_USER 3PAM "Oct 13, 1998"
.SH NAME
pam_get_user \- PAM routine to retrieve user name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ...  \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_get_user\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fR\fIpamh\fR, \fBchar **\fR\fIuser\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIprompt\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_get_user()\fR function is used by  \fBPAM\fR service modules to
retrieve the current user name from the  \fBPAM\fR handle. If the user name has
not been set with \fBpam_start()\fR or  \fBpam_set_item()\fR, the \fBPAM\fR
conversation function will be used to prompt the user for the user name with
the string "prompt". If \fIprompt\fR is  \fINULL\fR, then \fBpam_get_item()\fR
is called and the value of \fBPAM_USER_PROMPT\fR is used for prompting. If the
value of  \fBPAM_USER_PROMPT\fR is  \fINULL\fR, the following default prompt is
used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Please enter user name:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
After the user name is gathered by the conversation function,
\fBpam_set_item()\fR is called to set the value of  \fBPAM_USER\fR. By
convention, applications that need to prompt for a user name should  call
\fBpam_set_item()\fR and set the value of \fBPAM_USER_PROMPT\fR before calling
\fBpam_authenticate()\fR. The service module's \fBpam_sm_authenticate()\fR
function will then call \fBpam_get_user()\fR to prompt for the user name.
.sp
.LP
Note that certain  \fBPAM\fR service modules, such as a smart card module, may
override the value of  \fBPAM_USER_PROMPT\fR and pass in their own prompt.
Applications that call \fBpam_authenticate()\fR multiple times should set the
value of  \fBPAM_USER\fR to  \fINULL\fR with  \fBpam_set_item()\fR before
calling \fBpam_authenticate()\fR, if they want the user to be prompted for a
new user name each time. The value of \fIuser\fR retrieved by
\fBpam_get_user()\fR should not be modified or freed.  The item will be
released by \fBpam_end()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBpam_get_user()\fR returns  \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR; otherwise it
returns an error code. Refer to \fBpam\fR(3PAM) for information on error
related return values.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	 Stable
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_end\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_get_item\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_set_item\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_sm\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_sm_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_start\fR(3PAM), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in  \fBlibpam\fR are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own \fBPAM\fR handle.
