'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_SM_ACCT_MGMT 3PAM "Nov 18, 2003"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_acct_mgmt \- service provider implementation for pam_acct_mgmt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fR\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBint\fR \fIargc\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fR\fIargv\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In response to a call to \fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM), the  \fBPAM\fR framework
calls \fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt()\fR from the modules listed in the \fBpam.conf\fR(4)
file. The account management provider supplies the back-end functionality for
this interface function. Applications should not call this  \fBAPI\fR directly.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt()\fR function determines whether or not the current
user's account and password are valid.   This includes checking for password
and account expiration, and valid login times. The user in question is
specified by a prior call to \fBpam_start()\fR, and is referenced by the
authentication handle, \fIpamh\fR, which is passed as the first argument to
\fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt()\fR. The following flags may be set in the \fIflags\fR
field:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SILENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
The account management service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
The account management service should return  \fBPAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD\fR if the
user has a null authentication token.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fIargc\fR argument represents the number of module options passed in from
the configuration file \fBpam.conf\fR(4). \fIargv\fR specifies the module
options, which are interpreted and processed by the account management service.
Please refer to the specific module man pages for the various available
\fIoptions\fR. If an unknown option is passed to the module, an error should be
logged through \fBsyslog\fR(3C) and the option ignored.
.sp
.LP
If an account management module determines that the user password has aged or
expired, it should save this information as state in the authentication handle,
\fIpamh\fR, using  \fBpam_set_data()\fR. \fBpam_chauthok()\fR uses this
information to determine which passwords have expired.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If there are no restrictions to logging in,  \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR is returned.
The following error values may also be returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
User not known to underlying authentication module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
New authentication token required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_ACCT_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
User account has expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_PERM_DENIED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
User denied access to account at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_IGNORE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Ignore underlying account module regardless of whether the control flag is
\fIrequired,\fR \fIoptional\fR or \fIsufficient\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	 Stable
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_set_data\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_start\fR(3PAM), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB), \fBpam.conf\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in  \fBlibpam\fR are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own  \fBPAM\fR handle.
.sp
.LP
If the \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR \fIitem_type\fR is set and a service module does
not recognize the type, the service module does not process any information,
and returns \fBPAM_IGNORE\fR. If the \fBPAM_REPOSITORY\fR \fIitem_type\fR is
not set, a service module performs its default action.
