'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_AUTHENTICATE 3PAM "Jan 27, 2005"
.SH NAME
pam_authenticate \- perform authentication within the PAM framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>


\fBint\fR \fBpam_authenticate\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fR\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_authenticate()\fR function is called to authenticate the current
user. The user is usually required to enter a password or similar
authentication token depending upon the authentication service configured
within the system. The user in question should have been specified by a prior
call to \fBpam_start()\fR or \fBpam_set_item()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following flags may be set in the \fIflags\fR field:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SILENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Authentication service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
The authentication service should return  \fBPAM_AUTH_ERR\fR if the user has a
null authentication token.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,  \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR is returned.  In addition to the
error return values described in \fBpam\fR(3PAM), the following values may be
returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTH_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Authentication failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_CRED_INSUFFICIENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Cannot access authentication data due to insufficient credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTHINFO_UNAVAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Underlying authentication service cannot retrieve authentication information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
User not known to the underlying authentication module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_MAXTRIES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
An authentication service has maintained a retry count which has been reached.
No further retries should be attempted.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	 Stable
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_open_session\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_set_item\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_start\fR(3PAM), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In the case of authentication failures due to an incorrect username or
password, it is the responsibility of the application to retry
\fBpam_authenticate()\fR and to maintain the retry count. An authentication
service module may implement an internal retry count and return an error
\fBPAM_MAXTRIES\fR if the module does not want the application to retry.
.sp
.LP
If the  \fBPAM\fR framework cannot load the authentication module, then it will
return  \fBPAM_ABORT\fR. This indicates a serious failure, and  the application
should not attempt to retry the authentication.
.sp
.LP
For security reasons, the location of authentication failures is hidden from
the user.   Thus, if several authentication services are stacked and a single
service fails, \fBpam_authenticate()\fR requires that the user re-authenticate
each of the services.
.sp
.LP
A null authentication token in the authentication database will result in
successful authentication unless \fBPAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK\fR was specified.
In such cases, there will be no prompt to the user to enter an authentication
token.
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in  \fBlibpam\fR are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own  \fBPAM\fR handle.
