'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.   All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_SETCRED 3PAM "Jan 10, 2008"
.SH NAME
pam_setcred \- modify or delete user credentials for an authentication service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lpam\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <security/pam_appl.h>



\fBint\fR \fBpam_setcred\fR(\fBpam_handle_t *\fR\fIpamh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_setcred()\fR function is used to establish, modify, or delete user
credentials. It is typically called after the user has been authenticated and
after a session has been validated. See \fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM) and
\fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM).
.sp
.LP
The user is specified by a prior call to \fBpam_start()\fR or
\fBpam_set_item()\fR, and is referenced by the authentication handle,
\fIpamh\fR. The following flags may be set in the \fIflags\fR field.  Note that
the first four flags are mutually exclusive:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_ESTABLISH_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Set user credentials for an authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_DELETE_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Delete user credentials associated with an authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Reinitialize user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_REFRESH_CRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Extend lifetime of user credentials.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SILENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Authentication service should not generate any messages.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no flag is set,  \fBPAM_ESTABLISH_CRED\fR is used as the default.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon success, \fBpam_setcred()\fR returns  \fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR. In addition to
the error return values described in \fBpam\fR(3PAM) the following values may
be returned upon error:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_CRED_UNAVAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Underlying authentication service can not retrieve user credentials
unavailable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_CRED_EXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
User credentials expired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
User unknown to underlying authentication service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_CRED_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Failure setting user credentials.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	 Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_set_item\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_start\fR(3PAM), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own \fBPAM\fR handle.
