'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SUM 1B "Nov 8, 1995"
.SH NAME
sum \- calculate a checksum for a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/sum\fR \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR calculates and displays a 16-bit checksum for the named file and
displays the size of the file in kilobytes. It is typically used to look for
bad spots, or to validate a file communicated over some transmission line. The
checksum is calculated by an algorithm which may yield different results on
machines with 16-bit \fBint\fRs and machines with 32-bit \fBint\fRs, so it
cannot always be used to validate that a file has been transferred between
machines with different-sized \fBint\fRs.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBsum\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR(1), \fBwc\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
\fBRead error\fR is indistinguishable from \fBEOF\fR on most devices; check the
block count.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBsum\fR and \fB/usr/bin/sum\fR (see \fBsum\fR(1)) return different checksums.
.sp
.LP
This utility is obsolete.
