#
# Copyright 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
# Use is subject to license terms.
#
# CDDL HEADER START
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
# Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
# (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
# with the License.
#
# You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
# or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions
# and limitations under the License.
#
# When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
# file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
# If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
# fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
# information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
#
# CDDL HEADER END
#
#ident	"%Z%%M%	%I%	%E% SMI"
#

=head1 NAME

perlgcc - Compile perl modules using gcc.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 perlgcc Makefile.PL; make

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When perl is built it saves the name of the compiler and any compiler flags
in its configuration files, and then uses these saved settings when any
additional modules are built.  The perl shipped with Solaris is built with the
Forte compilers rather than gcc.

If add-on modules are built with the Forte compilers, everyting works as
expected.  However, if gcc is used to build add-on modules, the saved
configuration is incorrect as it assumes that the Forte compiler will be
present.

This command provides a set of perl configuration files that are configured to
use gcc as the compiler rather than the Forte compiler.  The default
configuration files are not modified, instead a replacement set of files are
transparently substituted for the duration of the perlgcc command.

Instead of invoking C<perl Makefile.PL> to generate the makefile needed
to compile a module, C<perlgcc Makefile.PL> should be used instead.
All command-line arguments to perlgcc are passed unmodified to C<perl>.

If you use the CPAN.pm module, instead of invoking C<perl -MCPAN -e shell>,
you should use C<perlgcc -MCPAN -e shell> instead, and use as normal.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

PERL5LIB

This is modified to point to the location of the replacement perl configuration
files.

=head2 ATTRIBUTES

See C<attributes(5)> for descriptions of the following attributes:

  ___________________________________________________________
 |       ATTRIBUTE TYPE        |      ATTRIBUTE VALUE        |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Availability                | CPAN (http://www.cpan.org)  |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Interface Stability         | Evolving                    |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<perl(1)>, C<perlrun(1)>, C<perlsolaris(1)>.
