'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IEC61883 7I "Mar 27, 2009"
.SH NAME
iec61883 \- IEC 61883 interfaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/av/iec61883.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The set of interfaces described in this man page can be used to control and
exchange data with consumer audio/video devices using protocols specified
in\fIIEC 61883 Consumer Electronic Audio/Video Equipment - Digital
Interface\fR, including Common Isochronous Packet (CIP), Connection Management
Procedures (CMP) and Function Control Protocol (FCP).
.sp
.LP
An \fBiec61883\fR compliant driver exports two device nodes for isochronous and
for asynchronous transactions. See the \fBFILES\fR section of this man page for
the namespace definition.
.SS "Isochronous Transfers"
.sp
.LP
Two methods are provided to receive/transmit isochronous data: using
\fBmmap\fR(2) in combination with \fBioctl\fR(2), and \fBread\fR(2) or
\fBwrite\fR(2).
.SS "Mmap/Ioctl"
.sp
.LP
This method provides better performance and finer-grained control than
read/write, and is a method of choice for most applications. The data buffer is
mapped into a user process address space, which means no data copying between
the kernel and an application is necessary. Synchronization between user
processes and the driver is performed using \fBioctl\fR(2) commands.
.sp
.LP
An application allocates resources for isochronous transfer using
\fBIEC61883_ISOCH_INIT\fR. Then the data buffer can be mapped into the process
space using \fBmmap\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
A circular data buffer consists of one or more equal size frame buffers
(further referred to as frames, unless to avoid ambiguity with AV frames).
Frames are numbered starting with zero and are always transferred sequentially.
Frames consist equal sized packets. Each packet contains a CIP header and one
or more data blocks.
.sp
.LP
A driver and an application act as a producer and a consumer: producer supplies
\fBfull\fR frames (filled with data) to the consumer, and the producer is not
allowed to access those frames until the consumer claims them \fBempty\fR.
.sp
.LP
A transfer can be initiated and suspended with \fBIEC61883_START\fR and
\fBIEC61883_STOP\fR commands respectively. \fBIEC61883_RECV\fR or
\fBIEC61883_XMIT\fR is used for producer-consumer synchronization.
.SS "Read/Write"
.sp
.LP
Using this method, an application calls \fBread\fR(2) or \fBwrite\fR(2) to
receive or transmit a specified amount of data. Bus-specific overhead, such as
isochronous packet headers, is handled by the driver and is not exposed to
applications. Data returned by \fBread\fR(2) contains CIP headers and data
blocks. Empty packets are not returned by \fBread\fR(2). \fBwrite\fR(2) data
should meet the same requirements.
.sp
.LP
If one or more channels have been allocated since \fBopen\fR(2) (see
\fBIEC61883_ISOCH_INIT\fR), the data is received/transmitted using channel that
was created the last.
.sp
.LP
If no channels were allocated, the driver uses the broadcast channel by default
and allocates the default-size data buffer. During transmit, the first packet's
CIP header is used to auto-detect the data format. If it is one of the formats
supported by the driver, it is properly transmitted (with inserted empty
packets and timestamps).
.sp
.LP
For both methods, if during transmit the driver runs out of data, it transmits
empty packets containing only a CIP header of the next to be transmitted
packet, as defined in \fIIEC 61883-1\fR.
.SS "Connection Management Procedures"
.sp
.LP
Applications wishing to follow Connection Management Procedures (CMP) in
combination with isochronous transfers should use the \fBioctl\fR(2)
\fBIEC61883_PLUG_INIT, IEC61883_PLUG_FINI, IEC61883_PLUG_REG_READ\fR and
\fBIEC61883_PLUG_REG_CAS\fR commands.
.SS "Asynchronous Transactions"
.sp
.LP
\fBread\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2), \fBioctl\fR(2), and \fBpoll\fR(2) can be used
with asynchronous nodes. Asynchronous data exchange between a driver and an
application utilizes a common data structure called asynchronous request (ARQ):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_arq {
        int        arq_type;
        int        arq_len;
        union {
                uint32_t   quadlet;
                uint64_t   octlet;
                uint8_t    buf[8];
        } arq_data;
} iec61883_arq_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fBarq_type\fR contains \fBARQ\fR type:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ARQ_FCP_CMD\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ARQ_FCP_RESP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBFCP\fR command and response frame respectively. Outgoing frames are sent
using \fBwrite\fR(2), incoming frames are received with \fBread\fR(2).
.sp
See \fIIEC 61883-1\fR for the FCP frame structure definition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ARQ_BUS_RESET\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returned by the driver when a bus reset occurs. There is no data associated
with this request type, and \fBarq_len\fR is set to 0.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If \fBarq_len\fR is 4 or 8, then data should be supplied in
\fBarq_data.quadlet\fR or \fBarq_data.octlet\fR respectively, otherwise up to 8
bytes can be put in \fBarq_data.buf\fR, with the rest of the data following
immediately after.
.SS "write(2)"
.sp
.LP
For a request to be sent to a target, an \fBiec61883_arq_t\fR structure along
with associated data is passed to the driver using \fBwrite\fR(2).
\fBwrite()\fR blocks until the request is completed.
.SS "read(2)"
.sp
.LP
A driver collects incoming ARQs in the internal buffer. Buffer size can be
changed using the \fBioctl\fR(2) command \fBIEC61883_FCP_SET_IBUF_SIZE\fR.
.sp
.LP
Reading an ARQ takes one or two steps depending on data length. An application
first reads \fBsizeof (iec61883_arq_t)\fR bytes: if \fBarq_len\fR is less than
or equal 4, which is usually the case, no additional step is needed. Otherwise,
the remaining \fBarq_len - 4\fR bytes should be read and concatenated.
.sp
.LP
\fBread\fR(2) blocks until the specified amount of data is available, unless
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR or \fBO_NDELAY\fR flag was set during \fBopen\fR(2), in which
case\fBread\fR(2) returns immediately.
.SS "poll(2)"
.sp
.LP
Applications can \fBpoll\fR(2) asynchronous nodes on the \fBPOLLIN\fR event.
.SS "Bus Reset"
.sp
.LP
In case of a bus reset, the driver notifies an application by generating an
\fBARQ\fR of type \fBIEC61883_ARQ_BUS_RESET\fR.
.sp
.LP
If there were established isochronous connections before bus reset, the driver
attempts to restore all connections as described in \fIIEC 61883\fR and resume
any active transfers that were in progress.
.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
The following commands only apply to isochronous nodes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ISOCH_INIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command allocates a data buffer and isochronous resources (if necessary)
for the isochronous transfer. The argument is a pointer to the structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_isoch_init {
      int ii_version;       /* interface version */
      int   ii_pkt_size;    /* packet size */
      int   ii_frame_size;  /* packets/frame */
      int   ii_frame_cnt;   /* # of frames */
      int   ii_direction;   /* xfer direction */
      int   ii_bus_speed;   /* bus speed */
      uint64_t ii_channel;  /* channel mask */
      int   ii_dbs;         /* DBS */
      int   ii_fn;          /* FN */
      int   ii_rate_n;      /* rate numerator */
      int   ii_rate_d;      /* rate denominator */
      int   ii_ts_mode;     /* timestamp mode */
      int   ii_flags;       /* flags */
      int   ii_handle;      /* isoch handle */
      int   ii_frame_rcnt;  /* # of frames */
      off_t   *ii_mmap_off  /* mmap offset */
      int   ii_rchannel;    /* channel */
      int   ii_error;       /* error code */
} iec61883_isoch_init_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fBii_version\fR should be set to \fBIEC61883_V1_0\fR.
.sp
The driver attempts to allocate a data buffer consisting of \fBii_frame_cnt\fR
frames, with \fBii_frame_size\fR packets in each frame. Packet size in bytes is
specified by \fBii_pkt_size\fR specifies and should be a multiple of 512 and
compatible with \fBii_bus_speed\fR.
.sp
\fBii_direction\fR can take one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_DIR_RECV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Receiving isochronous data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_DIR_XMIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transmitting isochronous data.
.RE

\fBii_bus_speed\fR chooses bus speed to be used and can be either
\fBIEC61883_S100, IEC61883_S200\fR or \fBIEC61883_S400\fR.
.sp
\fBii_channel\fR is a mask that specifies an isochronous channel number to be
used, with the \fIN\fRth bit representing channel \fIN\fR. When transmitting
data, several bits can be set at a time, in which case the driver chooses one,
for example, \fB0x3FF\fR means a range from 0 to 9. In case of receive, only
one bit can be set.
.sp
\fBii_dbs\fR specifies data block size in quadlets, for example, DBS value for
\fBSD-DVCR\fR is \fB0x78\fR. Refer to \fIIEC 61883\fR for more details on DBS.
.sp
ii_fn specifies fraction number, which defines the number of blocks in which a
source packet is divided. Allowed values are from 0 to 3. Refer to IEC 61883
for more details on FN.
.sp
Data rate expected by the AV device can be lower than the bus speed, in which
case the driver has to periodically insert empty packets into the data stream
to avoid device buffer overflows. This rate is specified with a fraction N/D,
set by \fBii_rate_n\fR and \fBii_rate_d\fR respectively. Any integer numbers
can be used, or the following predefined constants:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_RATE_N_DV_NTSC IEC61883_RATE_D_DV_NTSC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Data rate expected by \fBDV-NTSC\fR devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_RATE_N_DV_PAL IEC61883_RATE_D_DV_PAL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Data rate expected by \fBDV-PAL\fR devices.
.RE

During data transmission, a timestamp based on the current value of the cycle
timer is usually required. \fBii_ts_mode\fR defines timestamp mode to be used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_TS_SYT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Driver puts a timestamp in the SYT field of the first CIP header of each frame.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_TS_NONE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No timestamps.
.RE

\fBii_dbs, ii_fn, ii_rate_n, ii_rate_d\fR and \fBii_ts_mode\fR are only
required for transmission. In other case these should be set to 0.
.sp
\fBii_flags\fR should be set to 0.
.sp
If command succeeds, \fBii_handle\fR contains a handle that should be used with
other isochronous commands. \fBii_frame_rcnt\fR contains the number of
allocated frames (can be less than \fBii_frame_cnt\fR). \fBii_mmap_off\fR
contains an offset to be used in \fBmmap\fR(2), for example, to map an entire
data receive buffer:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pa = mmap(NULL, init.ii_pkt_size *
      init.ii_frame_size * init.ii_frame_rcnt,
      PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fd, init.ii_mmap_off);
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fBii_rchannel\fR contains channel number.
.sp
In case of command success, \fBii_error\fR is set to 0; otherwise one of the
following values can be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ERR_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Not enough memory for the data buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ERR_NOCHANNEL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cannot allocate isochronous channel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ERR_PKT_SIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packet size is not allowed at this bus speed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ERR_VERSION\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Interface version is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ERR_INVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more the parameters are invalid
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ERR_OTHER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unspecified error type.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ISOCH_FINI\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Argument is a handle returned by \fBIEC61883_ISOCH_INIT\fR. This command frees
any resources associated with this handle. There must be no active transfers
and the data buffer must be unmapped; otherwise the command fails.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_START\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command starts an isochronous transfer. The argument is a handle returned
by \fBIEC61883_ISOCH_INIT\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_STOP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command stops an isochronous transfer. The argument is a handle returned
by \fBIEC61883_ISOCH_INIT\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_RECV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command is used to receive full frames and return empty frames to the
driver. The argument is a pointer to the structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_recv {
        int rx_handle;     /* isoch handle */
        int rx_flags;      /* flags */
iec61883_xfer_t rx_xfer;   /* xfer params */
} iec61883_recv_t;

typedef struct iec61883_xfer {
        int   xf_empty_idx; /* first empty frame */
        int xf_empty_cnt;   /* empty frame count */
        int   xf_full_idx;  /* first full frame */
        int   xf_full_cnt;  /* full frame count */
        int   xf_error;     /* error */
} iec61883_xfer_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fBrx_flags\fR should be set to 0.
.sp
An application sets \fBxf_empty_idx\fR and \fBxf_empty_cnt\fR to indicate
frames it no longer needs. E.g. if a buffer consists of 6 frames,
\fBxf_empty_idx\fR is 4, \fBxf_empty_cnt\fR is 3 - means that frames 4, 5 and 0
can now be reused by the driver. If there are no empty frames, for example, the
first time this command is called, \fBxf_empty_cnt\fR should be set to 0.
.sp
When the command returns, \fBxf_full_idx\fR and \fBxf_full_cnt\fR specifies the
frames that are full. \fBxf_error\fR is always 0.
.sp
In general, AV frame boundaries are not aligned with the frame buffer
boundaries, because the first received packet might not be the first packet of
an AV frame, and, in contrast with the read/write method, the driver does not
remove empty CIP packets.
.sp
Applications should detect empty packets by comparing adjacent packets'
continuity counters (DBC field of the CIP header).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_XMIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command is used to transmit full frames and get more empty frames from the
driver. The argument is a pointer to the structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_xmit {
        int   tx_handle;         /* isoch handle */
        int   tx_flags;          /* flags */
        iec61883_xfer_t tx_xfer; /* xfer params */
        int   tx_miss_cnt;       /* missed cycles */
 } iec61883_xmit_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fBtx_flags\fR should be set to zero.
.sp
The application sets \fBxf_full_idx\fR and \fBxf_full_cnt\fR to specify frames
it wishes to transmit. If there are no frames to transmit (e.g. the first time
this command is called), \fBxf_full_cnt\fR should be set to 0.
.sp
When the command returns, \fBxf_empty_idx\fR and \fBxf_empty_cnt\fR specifies
empty frames which can be to transmit more data. \fBxf_error\fR is always 0.
.sp
\fBtx_miss_cnt\fR contains the number of isochronous cycles missed since last
transfer due to data buffer under run. This can happen when an application does
not supply data fast enough.
.sp
For the purposes of time stamping, the driver considers the first packet in a
frame buffer to be the first packet of an AV frame.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_PLUG_INIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command returns a handle for the specified plug. The argument is a pointer
to the structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_plug_init {
        int   pi_ver;     /* interface version */
        int   pi_loc;     /* plug location */
        int   pi_type;    /* plug type */
        int   pi_num;     /* plug number */
        int   pi_flags;   /* flags */
        int   pi_handle;  /* plug handle */
        int   pi_rnum;    /* plug number */
 } iec61883_plug_init_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fBpi_ver\fR should be set to \fBIEC61883_V1_0\fR.
.sp
\fBpi_loc\fR specifies plug location:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_LOC_LOCAL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
On the local unit (local plug). A plug control register (PCR) is allocated.
Command fails if the plug already exists
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_LOC_REMOTE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
On the remote unit (remote plug). The plug should exist on the remote unit,
otherwise the command fails.
.RE

\fBpi_type\fR specifies isochronous plug type:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_PLUG_IN IEC61883_PLUG_OUT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Input or output plugs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_PLUG_MASTER_IN IEC61883_PLUG_MASTER_OUT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Master input or master output plug. These plugs always exist on the local unit.
.RE

\fBpi_num\fR specifies plug number. This should be 0 for master plugs, and from
0 to 31 for input/output plugs. Alternatively, a special value
\fBIEC61883_PLUG_ANY\fR can be used to let the driver choose a free plug
number, create the plug and return the number in \fBpi_rnum\fR.
.sp
\fBpi_flags\fR should be set to 0.
.sp
If the command succeeds, \fBpi_handle\fR contains a handle that should be used
with other plug commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_PLUG_FINI\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Argument is a handle returned by \fBIEC61883_PLUG_INIT\fR. This command frees
any resources associated with this handle, including the PCR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_PLUG_REG_READ\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read plug register value. The argument is a pointer to the structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_plug_reg_val {
        int         pr_handle; /* plug handle */
        uint32_t     pr_val;    /* register value */
} iec61883_plug_reg_val_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fBpr_handle\fR is a handle returned by \fBIEC61883_PLUG_INIT\fR. Register
value is returned in \fBpr_val\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_PLUG_REG_CAS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Atomically compare and swap plug register value. The argument is a pointer to
the structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct iec61883_plug_reg_lock {
        int        pl_handle; /* plug handle */
        uint32_t   pl_arg;    /* compare arg */
        uint32_t   pl_data;   /* write value */
        UINT32_t   pl_old;    /* original value */
} iec61883_plug_reg_lock_t;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

pr_handle is a handle returned by IEC61883_PLUG_INIT.
.sp
Original register value is compared with pl_arg and if they are equal, register
value is replaced with pl_data. In any case, the original value is stored in
pl_old.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following commands only apply to asynchronous nodes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ARQ_GET_IBUF_SIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command returns current incoming ARQ buffer size. The argument is a
pointer to \fBint\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIEC61883_ARQ_SET_IBUF_SIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command changes incoming ARQ buffer size. The argument is the new buffer
size in bytes.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/av/N/async\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Device node for asynchronous data
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/av/N/isoch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Device has been disconnected
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Bus operation failed.
.sp
DMA failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fBioctl\fR(2) argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid argument or argument combination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENODEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Device has been disconnected.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	All
_
Stability level	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBpoll\fR(2), \fBread\fR(2),
\fBwrite\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBav1394\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIIEC 61883 Consumer audio/video equipment - Digital interface\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 1394-1995 Standard for a High Performance Serial Bus\fR
