'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH QUOTACTL 7I "Jun 14, 2004"
.SH NAME
quotactl \- manipulate disk quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/fs/ufs_quota.h>
int ioctl(int \fIfd\fR, Q_QUOTACTL, struct quotcl *\fIqp\fR)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This \fBioctl()\fR call manipulates disk quotas. \fIfd\fR is the file
descriptor returned by the \fBopen()\fR system call after opening the
\fBquotas\fR file (located in the root directory of the filesystem running
quotas.) \fBQ_QUOTACTL\fR is defined in \fB/usr/include/sys/fs/ufs_quota.h\fR.
\fIqp\fR is the address of the \fBquotctl\fR structure which is defined as
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct quotctl {
  int op;
  uid_t uid;
  caddr_t addr;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fIop\fR indicates an operation to be applied to the user \fBID\fR \fIuid\fR.
(See below.) \fIaddr\fR is the address of an optional, command specific, data
structure which is copied in or out of the system. The interpretation of
\fIaddr\fR is given with each value of \fIop\fR below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_QUOTAON\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Turn on quotas for a file system. \fIaddr\fR points to the full pathname of the
\fBquotas\fR file. \fIuid\fR is ignored. It is recommended that \fIuid\fR have
the value of \fB0\fR. This call is restricted to the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_QUOTAOFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Turn off quotas for a file system. \fIaddr\fR and \fIuid\fR are ignored. It is
recommended that \fIaddr\fR have the value of \fINULL\fR and \fIuid\fR have the
value of \fB0\fR. This call is restricted to the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_GETQUOTA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Get disk quota limits and current usage for user \fIuid\fR. \fIaddr\fR is a
pointer to a \fBdqblk\fR structure (defined in \fB<sys/fs/ufs_quota.h>\fR).
Only the super-user may get the quotas of a user other than himself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_SETQUOTA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Set disk quota limits and current usage for user \fIuid\fR. \fIaddr\fR is a
pointer to a \fBdqblk\fR structure (defined in \fBsys/fs/ufs_quota.h\fR). This
call is restricted to the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_SETQLIM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Set disk quota limits for user \fIuid\fR. \fIaddr\fR is a pointer to a
\fBdqblk\fR structure (defined in \fBsys/fs/ufs_quota.h\fR). This call is
restricted to the super-user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_SYNC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Update the on-disk copy of quota usages for this file system. \fIaddr\fR and
\fIuid\fR are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBQ_ALLSYNC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Update the on-disk copy of quota usages for all file systems with active
quotas. \fIaddr\fR and \fIuid\fR are ignored.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
This \fBioctl()\fR returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
on success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
on failure and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fIaddr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The kernel has not been compiled with the \fBQUOTA\fR option. \fIop\fR is
invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fBquotas\fR file specified by \fIaddr\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The call is privileged and the calling process did not assert
{PRIV_SYS_MOUNT} in the effective set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
No disk quota is found for the indicated user. Quotas have not been turned on
for this file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEUSERS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The quota table is full.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If \fIop\fR is \fBQ_QUOTAON\fR, \fBioctl()\fR may set \fBerrno\fR to:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The quota file pointed to by \fIaddr\fR exists but is not a regular file. The
quota file pointed to by \fIaddr\fR exists but is not on the file system
pointed to by \fIspecial\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Internal I/O error while attempting to read the \fBquotas\fR file pointed to by
\fIaddr\fR.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/include/sys/fs/ufs_quota.h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
quota-related structure/function definitions and defines
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBquota\fR(1M), \fBquotacheck\fR(1M), \fBquotaon\fR(1M), \fBgetrlimit\fR(2),
\fBmount\fR(2)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
There should be some way to integrate this call with the resource limit
interface provided by \fBsetrlimit()\fR and \fBgetrlimit\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
This call is incompatible with Melbourne quotas.
