'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SOCKIO 7I "Nov 8, 1996"
.SH NAME
sockio \- ioctls that operate directly on sockets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/sockio.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBioctls\fR listed in this manual page apply directly to sockets,
independent of any underlying protocol. The \fBsetsockopt()\fR call (see
\fBgetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET)) is the primary method for operating on sockets,
rather than on the underlying protocol or network interface. \fBioctl\fRs for a
specific network interface or protocol are documented in the manual page for
that interface or protocol.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSIOCSPGRP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The argument is a pointer to an \fBint\fR. Set the process-group \fBID\fR that
will subsequently receive \fBSIGIO\fR or \fBSIGURG\fR signals for the socket
referred to by the descriptor passed to \fBioctl\fR to the value of that
\fBint\fR. The argument must be either positive (in which case it must  be a
process \fBID)\fR or negative (in which case it must be a process group).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSIOCGPGRP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The argument is a pointer to an \fBint\fR. Set the value of that \fBint\fR to
the process-group \fBID\fR that is receiving \fBSIGIO\fR or \fBSIGURG\fR
signals for the socket referred to by the descriptor passed to \fBioctl\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSIOCCATMARK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The argument is a pointer to an \fBint\fR. Set the value of that \fBint\fR to
\fB1\fR if the read pointer for the socket referred to by the descriptor passed
to \fBioctl\fR points to a mark in the data stream for an out-of-band message.
Set the value of that \fBint\fR to \fB0\fR if the read pointer for the socket
referred to by the descriptor passed to \fBioctl\fR  does not point to a mark
in the data stream for an  out-of-band message.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBgetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET)
