'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TERMIOX 7I "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
termiox \- extended general terminal interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The extended general terminal interface supplements the \fBtermio\fR(7I)
general terminal interface by adding support for asynchronous hardware flow
control, isochronous flow control and clock modes, and local implementations of
additional asynchronous features. Some systems may not support all of these
capabilities because of either hardware or software limitations.  Other systems
may not permit certain functions to be disabled.  In these cases the
appropriate bits will be ignored.  See <\fBsys/termiox.h\fR> for your system to
find out which capabilities are supported.
.SS "Hardware Flow Control Modes"
.LP
Hardware flow control supplements the \fBtermio\fR(7I) \fBIXON\fR, \fBIXOFF\fR,
and \fBIXANY\fR character flow control. Character flow control occurs when one
device controls the data transfer of another device by the insertion of control
characters in the data stream between devices.  Hardware flow control occurs
when one device controls the data transfer of another device using electrical
control signals on wires (circuits) of the asynchronous interface. Isochronous
hardware flow control occurs when one device controls the data transfer of
another device by  asserting or removing the transmit clock signals of that
device.  Character flow control and hardware flow control may be simultaneously
set.
.sp
.LP
In asynchronous, full duplex applications, the use of the Electronic Industries
Association's EIA-232-D Request To Send (RTS) and Clear To Send (CTS) circuits
is the  preferred method of hardware flow control.  An interface to other
hardware flow control methods is included to provide a standard interface to
these existing methods.
.sp
.LP
The EIA-232-D standard specified only unidirectional hardware flow control -
the Data Circuit-terminating Equipment or Data Communications Equipment (DCE)
indicates to the Data Terminal Equipment (DTE) to stop transmitting data.   The
\fBtermiox\fR interface allows both unidirectional and bidirectional hardware
flow control; when bidirectional flow control is enabled, either the DCE or DTE
can indicate to each other to stop transmitting data across the interface.
Note: It is assumed that the asynchronous port is configured as a DTE.  If the
connected device is also a DTE and not a DCE, then DTE to DTE (for example,
terminal or printer connected to computer) hardware flow control is possible by
using a null modem to interconnect the appropriate data and control circuits.
.SS "Clock Modes"
.LP
Isochronous communication is a variation of asynchronous communication whereby
two communicating devices may provide transmit and/or receive clock signals to
one another. Incoming clock signals can be taken from the baud rate generator
on the local isochronous port controller, from CCITT V.24 circuit 114,
Transmitter Signal Element Timing - DCE source (EIA-232-D pin 15), or  from
CCITT V.24 circuit 115, Receiver Signal Element Timing - DCE source  (EIA-232-D
pin 17). Outgoing clock signals can be sent on CCITT V.24 circuit 113,
Transmitter Signal Element Timing - DTE source (EIA-232-D  pin 24), on CCITT
V.24 circuit 128, Receiver Signal Element Timing - DTE source (no EIA-232-D
pin), or not sent at all.
.sp
.LP
In terms of clock modes, traditional asynchronous communication is implemented
simply by using the local baud rate generator as the incoming transmit and
receive clock source and not outputting any clock signals.
.SS "Terminal Parameters"
.LP
The parameters that control the behavior of devices providing the \fBtermiox\fR
interface are specified by the \fBtermiox\fR structure defined in the
<\fBsys/termiox.h\fR> header.  Several \fBioctl\fR(2) system calls that fetch
or change these parameters use this structure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define	NFF	5
struct termiox	{
	unsigned short	x_hflag;       /* hardware flow control modes */
	unsigned short	x_cflag;       /* clock modes */
	unsigned short	x_rflag[NFF];  /* reserved modes */
	unsigned short	x_sflag;       /* spare local modes */
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBx_hflag\fR field describes hardware flow control modes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
RTSXOFF 	0000001	T{
Enable RTS hardware flow control on input.
T}
CTSXON  	0000002	T{
Enable CTS hardware flow control on output.
T}
DTRXOFF 	0000004	T{
Enable DTR hardware flow control on input.
T}
CDXON   	0000010	T{
Enable CD hardware flow control on output.
T}
ISXOFF  	0000020	T{
Enable isochronous hardware flow control on input
T}
.TE

.sp
.LP
The EIA-232-D DTR and CD circuits are used to establish a connection between
two systems. The RTS circuit is also used to establish a connection with a
modem. Thus, both DTR and RTS are activated when an asynchronous port is
opened. If DTR is used for hardware flow control, then RTS must be used for
connectivity. If CD is used for hardware flow control, then CTS must be used
for connectivity. Thus, RTS and DTR (or CTS and CD) cannot both be used for
hardware flow control at the same time. Other mutual exclusions may apply, such
as the simultaneous setting of the \fBtermio\fR(7I) \fBHUPCL\fR and the
\fBtermiox\fR \fBDTRXOFF\fR bits, which use the DTE ready line for different
functions.
.sp
.LP
Variations of different hardware flow control methods may be selected by
setting the appropriate bits. For example, bidirectional RTS/CTS flow
control is selected by setting both the \fBRTSXOFF\fR and \fBCTSXON\fR bits and
bidirectional DTR/CTS flow control is selected by setting both the
\fBDTRXOFF\fR and \fBCTSXON\fR. Modem control or unidirectional CTS hardware
flow control is selected by setting only the \fBCTSXON\fR bit.
.sp
.LP
As previously mentioned, it is assumed that the local asynchronous port (for
example, computer) is configured as a DTE.  If the connected device (for
example,  printer) is also a DTE, it is assumed that the device is connected to
the computer's asynchronous port using a null modem that swaps control circuits
(typically RTS and CTS).  The connected DTE drives RTS and the null modem swaps
RTS  and CTS so that the remote RTS is received as CTS by the local DTE.  In
the case that \fBCTSXON\fR is set for hardware flow control, printer's lowering
of its RTS would cause CTS seen by the computer to be lowered.  Output to the
printer is suspended until the printer's raising of its RTS, which would cause
CTS seen by the computer to be raised.
.sp
.LP
If \fBRTSXOFF\fR is set, the Request To Send (RTS) circuit (line) will be
raised, and if the asynchronous port needs to have its input stopped, it will
lower the Request To Send (RTS) line. If the RTS line is lowered, it is assumed
that the connected device will stop its output until RTS is raised.
.sp
.LP
If \fBCTSXON\fR is set, output will occur only if the Clear To Send (CTS)
circuit (line) is raised by the connected device. If the CTS line is lowered by
the connected device, output is suspended until CTS is raised.
.sp
.LP
If \fBDTRXOFF\fR is set, the DTE Ready (DTR) circuit (line) will be raised, and
if the asynchronous port needs to have its input stopped, it will lower the DTE
Ready (DTR) line. If the DTR line is lowered, it is assumed that the connected
device will stop its output until DTR is raised.
.sp
.LP
If \fBCDXON\fR is set, output will occur only if the Received Line Signal
Detector (CD) circuit (line) is raised by the connected device. If the CD line
is lowered by the connected device, output is suspended until CD is raised.
.sp
.LP
If \fBISXOFF\fR is set, and if the isochronous port needs to have its input
stopped, it will stop the outgoing clock signal. It is assumed that the
connected device is using this clock signal to create its output. Transit and
receive clock sources are programmed using the \fBx_cflag\fR fields. If the
port is not programmed for external clock generation, \fBISXOFF\fR is ignored.
Output isochronous flow control is supported by appropriate clock source
programming using the \fBx_cflag\fR field and enabled at the remote connected
device.
.sp
.LP
The \fBx_cflag\fR field specifies the system treatment of clock modes.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
\fBXMTCLK\fR	0000007	Transmit clock source:
\fBXCIBRG\fR	0000000  	T{
Get transmit clock from internal baud rate generator.
T}
\fBXCTSET\fR	0000001  	T{
Get transmit clock from transmitter signal element timing (DCE source) lead, CCITT V.24 circuit 114, EIA-232-D pin 15.
T}
\fBXCRSET\fR	0000002  	T{
Get transmit clock from receiver signal element timing (DCE source) lead, CCITT V.24 circuit 115, EIA-232-D pin 17.
T}
\fBRCVCLK\fR	0000070  	Receive clock source:
\fBRCIBRG\fR	0000000  	T{
Get receive clock from internal baud rate generator.
T}
\fBRCTSET\fR	0000010  	T{
Get receive clock from transmitter signal element timing (DCE source) lead, CCITT V.24 circuit 114, EIA-232-D pin 15.
T}
\fBRCRSET\fR	0000020  	T{
Get receive clock from receiver signal element timing (DCE source) lead, CCITT V.24 circuit 115, EIA-232-D pin 17.
T}
\fBTSETCLK\fR	0000700  	T{
Transmitter signal element timing (DTE source) lead, CCITT V.24 circuit 113, EIA-232-D pin 24, clock source:
T}
\fBTSETCOFF\fR	0000000  	TSET clock not provided.
\fBTSETCRBRG\fR	0000100  	T{
Output receive baud rate generator on circuit 113.
T}
\fBTSETCTBRG\fR	0000200  	T{
Output transmit baud rate generator on circuit 113
T}
\fBTSETCTSET\fR	0000300  	T{
Output transmitter signal element timing (DCE source) on circuit 113.
T}
\fBTSETCRSET\fR	0000400  	T{
Output receiver signal element timing (DCE source) on circuit 113.
T}
\fBRSETCLK\fR	0007000  	T{
Receiver signal element timing (DTE source) lead, CCITT V.24 circuit 128, no EIA-232-D pin, clock source:
T}
\fBRSETCOFF\fR	0000000  	RSET clock not provided.
\fBRSETCRBRG\fR	0001000  	T{
Output receive baud rate generator on circuit 128.
T}
\fBRSETCTBRG\fR	0002000  	T{
Output transmit baud rate generator on circuit 128.
T}
\fBRSETCTSET\fR	0003000  	T{
Output transmitter signal element timing (DCE source) on circuit 128.
T}
\fBRSETCRSET\fR	0004000  	T{
Output receiver signal element timing (DCE) on circuit 128.
T}
.TE

.sp
.LP
If the \fBXMTCLK\fR field has a value of \fBXCIBRG\fR the transmit clock is
taken from the hardware internal baud rate generator, as in normal asynchronous
transmission. If \fBXMTCLK\fR = \fBXCTSET\fR the transmit clock is taken from
the Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DCE source) circuit. If \fBXMTCLK\fR =
\fBXCRSET\fR the transmit clock is taken from the Receiver Signal Element
Timing (DCE source) circuit.
.sp
.LP
If the \fBRCVCLK\fR field has a value of \fBRCIBRG\fR the receive clock is
taken from the hardware Internal Baud Rate Generator, as in normal asynchronous
transmission. If \fBRCVCLK\fR = \fBRCTSET\fR the receive clock is taken from
the Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DCE source) circuit. If \fBRCVCLK\fR =
\fBRCRSET\fR the receive clock is taken from the Receiver Signal Element Timing
(DCE source) circuit.
.sp
.LP
If the \fBTSETCLK\fR field has a value of \fBTSETCOFF\fR the Transmitter Signal
Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is not driven. If \fBTSETCLK\fR =
\fBTSETCRBRG\fR the Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is
driven by the Receive Baud Rate Generator. If \fBTSETCLK\fR = \fBTSETCTBRG\fR
the Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is driven by the
Transmit Baud Rate Generator. If \fBTSETCLK\fR = \fBTSETCTSET\fR the
Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is driven by the
Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DCE source). If \fBTSETCLK\fR =
\fBTSETCRBRG\fR the Transmitter Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is
driven by the Receiver Signal Element Timing (DCE source).
.sp
.LP
If the \fBRSETCLK\fR field has a value of \fBRSETCOFF\fR the Receiver Signal
Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is not driven. If \fBRSETCLK\fR =
\fBRSETCRBRG\fR the Receiver Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is
driven by the Receive Baud Rate Generator.  If \fBRSETCLK\fR = \fBRSETCTBRG\fR
the Receiver Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is driven by the
Transmit Baud Rate Generator. If \fBRSETCLK\fR = \fBRSETCTSET\fR the Receiver
Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is driven by the Transmitter Signal
Element Timing (DCE source). If \fBRSETCLK\fR = \fBRSETCRBRG\fR the Receiver
Signal Element Timing (DTE source) circuit is driven by the Receiver Signal
Element Timing (DCE source).
.sp
.LP
The \fBx_rflag\fR is reserved for future interface definitions and should not
be used by any implementations. The \fBx_sflag\fR may be used by local
implementations wishing to customize their terminal interface using the
\fBtermiox\fR ioctl system calls.
.SH IOCTLS
.LP
The  \fBioctl\fR(2) system calls have the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBioctl\fR (\fIfildes, command, arg\fR) \fBstruct termiox *\fR \fIarg\fR;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The commands using this form are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCGETX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The argument is a pointer to a \fBtermiox\fR structure. The current terminal
parameters are fetched and stored into that structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCSETX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The argument is a pointer to a \fBtermiox\fR structure.  The current terminal
parameters are set from the values stored in that structure.  The change is
immediate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCSETXW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The argument is a pointer to a \fBtermiox\fR structure.  The current terminal
parameters are set from the values stored in that structure.  The change occurs
after all characters queued for output have been transmitted. This form should
be used when changing parameters that will affect output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCSETXF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The argument is a pointer to a \fBtermiox\fR structure.  The current terminal
parameters are set from the values stored in that structure.  The change occurs
after all characters queued for output have been transmitted; all characters
queued for input are discarded and then the change occurs.
.RE

.SH FILES
.LP
\fB/dev/*\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBstty\fR(1), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The  termiox(7I) system call is provided for compatibility with previous
releases and  its use is discouraged.  Instead, the  \fBtermio\fR(7I) system
call is recommended.  See \fBtermio\fR(7I) for usage information.
