'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH VISUAL_IO 7I "Oct 14, 2005"
.SH NAME
visual_io \- Solaris VISUAL I/O control operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <sys/visual_io.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Solaris VISUAL environment defines a small set of ioctls for controlling
graphics and imaging devices.
.sp
.LP
The \fBVIS_GETIDENTIFIER\fR ioctl is mandatory and must be implemented in
device drivers for graphics devices using the Solaris VISUAL environment. The
\fBVIS_GETIDENTIFIER\fR ioctl is defined to return a device identifier from the
device driver. This identifier must be a uniquely-defined string.
.sp
.LP
There are two additional sets of ioctls. One supports mouse tracking via
hardware cursor operations. Use of this set is optional, however, if a graphics
device has hardware cursor support and implements these ioctls, the mouse
tracking performance is improved. The remaining set supports the device acting
as the system console device. Use of this set is optional, but if a graphics
device is to be used as the system console device, it must implement these
ioctls.
.sp
.LP
The VISUAL environment also defines interfaces for non-ioctl entry points into
the driver that the Solaris operating environment calls when it is running in
standalone  mode (for example, when using a stand-alone  debugger, entering
the  PROM  monitor, or when the system panicking). These are also known as
"Polled I/O" entry points, which operate under an an explicit set of
restrictions, described below.
.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_GETIDENTIFIER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This \fBioctl()\fR returns an identifier string to uniquely identify a device
used in the Solaris VISUAL environment.  This is a mandatory ioctl and must
return a unique string. We suggest that the name be formed as
\fI<companysymbol><devicetype>\fR\&. For example, the \fBcgsix\fR driver
returns \fBSUNWcg6\fR.
.sp
\fBVIS_GETIDENTIFIER\fR takes a \fBvis_identifier\fR structure as its
parameter.  This structure has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define VIS_MAXNAMELEN 128
struct vis_identifier {
       char name[VIS_MAXNAMELEN];
};
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_GETCURSOR\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBVIS_SETCURSOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
These ioctls fetch and set various cursor attributes, using the
\fBvis_cursor\fR structure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_cursorpos {
	   short	x;	     /* cursor x coordinate */
	   short	y;	     /* cursor y coordinate */
};

struct vis_cursorcmap {
	  int	version;	         /* version */
	  int	reserved;
	  unsigned char *red;  /* red color map elements */
	  unsigned char *green;/* green color map elements */
	  unsigned char *blue; /* blue color map elements */
};

#define VIS_CURSOR_SETCURSOR   0x01  /* set cursor */
#define VIS_CURSOR_SETPOSITION 0x02  /* set cursor position */
#define VIS_CURSOR_SETHOTSPOT  0x04  /* set cursor hot spot */
#define VIS_CURSOR_SETCOLORMAP 0x08  /* set cursor colormap */
#define VIS_CURSOR_SETSHAPE 0x10     /* set cursor shape */
#define VIS_CURSOR_SETALL	\e
    (VIS_CURSOR_SETCURSOR | VIS_CURSOR_SETPOSITION | \e
    VIS_CURSOR_SETHOTSPOT | VIS_CURSOR_SETCOLORMAP | \e
    VIS_CURSOR_SETSHAPE)

struct vis_cursor {
    short set;                    /* what to set */
    short enable;                 /* cursor on/off */
    struct vis_cursorpos pos;     /* cursor position */
    struct  vis_cursorpos hot;    /* cursor hot spot */
    struct vis_cursorcmap cmap;   /* color map info */
    struct vis_cursorpos size;    /* cursor bitmap size */
    char  *image;                 /* cursor image bits */
    char  *mask;                  /* cursor mask bits */
};
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBvis_cursorcmap\fR structure should contain pointers to two elements,
specifying the red, green, and blue values for foreground and background.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_SETCURSORPOS\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBVIS_MOVECURSOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
These ioctls fetch and move the current cursor position, using the
\fBvis_cursorpos\fR structure.
.RE

.SS "Console Optional Ioctls"
.sp
.LP
The following ioctl sets are used by graphics drivers that are part of the
system console device. All of the ioctls must be implemented to be a  console
device.  In addition, if the system does not have a prom or the prom goes away
during boot, the special standalone ioctls (listed below) must also be
implemented.
.sp
.LP
The coordinate system for the console device places 0,0 at the upper left
corner of the device, with rows increasing toward the bottom of the device and
columns increasing from left to right.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBVIS_PUTCMAP\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBVIS_GETCMAP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set or get color map entries.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The argument is a pointer to a \fBvis_cmap\fR structure, which contains the
following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_cmap {
    int	index;
    int	count;
    uchar_t	*red;
    uchar_t	*green;
    uchar_t	*blue;
}
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBindex\fR is the starting index in the color map where you want to start
setting or getting color map entries.
.sp
.LP
\fBcount\fR is the number of color map entries to set or get.  It also is the
size of the \fBred\fR, \fBgreen\fR, and \fBblue\fR color arrays.
.sp
.LP
\fB*red\fR, \fB*green\fR, and \fB*blue\fR are pointers to unsigned character
arrays which contain the color map info to set or where the color map info is
placed on a get.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Initializes the graphics driver as a console device.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The argument is a pointer to a \fBvis_devinit\fR structure. The graphics driver
is expected to allocate any local state information needed to be a console
device and fill in this structure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_devinit {
    int  version;
    screen_size_t  width;
    screen_size_t  height;
    screen_size_t  linebytes;
    unit_t	size;
    int	   depth;
    short  mode;
    struct vis_polledio    *polledio;
    vis_modechg_cb_t       modechg_cb;
    struct vis_modechg_arg *modechg_arg;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBversion\fR is the version of this structure and should be set to
\fBVIS_CONS_REV\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR are the width and height of the device.  If
\fBmode\fR (see below) is \fBVIS_TEXT\fR then \fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR are
the number of characters wide and high of the device. If \fBmode\fR is
\fBVIS_PIXEL\fR then \fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR are the number of pixels wide
and high of the device.
.sp
.LP
\fBlinebytes\fR is the number of bytes per line of the device.
.sp
.LP
\fBsize\fR is the total size of the device in pixels.
.sp
.LP
\fBdepth\fR is the pixel depth in device bits. Currently supported depths are:
\fB1\fR, \fB4\fR, \fB8\fR and \fB24\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBmode\fR is the mode of the device.  Either \fBVIS_PIXEL\fR (data to be
displayed is in bitmap format) or \fBVIS_TEXT\fR (data to be displayed is in
ascii format).
.sp
.LP
\fBpolledio\fR is used to pass the address of the structure containing the
standalone mode polled I/O entry points to the device driver back to the
terminal emulator. The \fBvis_polledio\fR interfaces are described in the
Console Standalone Entry Points section of this manpage. These entry points are
where the operating system enters the driver when the system is running in
standalone mode. These functions perform identically to the VIS_CONSDISPLAY,
VIS_CONSCURSOR and VIS_CONSCOPY ioctls, but are called directly by the Solaris
operating environment and must operate under a very strict set of assumptions.
.sp
.LP
\fBmodechg_cb\fR is a callback function passed from the terminal emulator to
the framebuffer driver which the frame-buffer driver must call whenever a video
mode change event occurs that changes the screen height, width or depth. The
callback takes two arguments, an opaque handle, \fBmodechg_arg\fR, and the
address of a vis_devinit struct containing the new video mode information.
.sp
.LP
\fBmodechg_arg\fR is an opaque handle passed from the terminal emulator to the
driver, which the driver must pass back to the terminal emulator as an argument
to the \fBmodechg_cb\fR function when the driver notifies the terminal emulator
of a video mode change.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_DEVFINI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Tells the graphics driver that it is no longer the system console device. There
is no argument to this ioctl. The driver is expected to free any locally kept
state information related to the console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_CONSCURSOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Describes the size and placement of the cursor on the screen. The graphics
driver is expected to display or hide the cursor at the indicated position.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The argument is a pointer to a \fBvis_conscursor\fR structure which contains
the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_conscursor {
    screen_pos_t   row;
    screen_pos_t   col;
    screen_size_t  width;
    screen_size_t  height
    color_t        fg_color;
    color_t        bg_color;
    short          action;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBrow\fR and \fBcol\fR are the first row and column (upper left corner of the
cursor).
.sp
.LP
\fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR are the width and height of the cursor.
.sp
.LP
If \fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl is set to \fBVIS_PIXEL\fR, then
\fBcol\fR, \fBrow\fR, \fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR are in pixels. If \fBmode\fR
in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_TEXT\fR, then \fBcol\fR,
\fBrow\fR, \fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR are in characters.
.sp
.LP
\fBfg_color\fR and \fBbg_color\fR are the foreground and background color map
indexes to use when  the \fBaction\fR (see below) is set to
\fBVIS_DISPLAY_CURSOR\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBaction\fR indicates whether to display or hide the cursor.  It is set to
either \fBVIS_HIDE_CURSOR\fR or \fBVIS_DISPLAY_CURSOR\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_CONSDISPLAY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Display data on the graphics device. The graphics driver is expected to display
the data contained in the  \fBvis_display\fR structure at the specified
position on the console.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBvis_display\fR structure contains the following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_display {
    screen_pos_t   row;
    screen_pos_t   col;
    screen_size_t  width;
    screen_size_t  height;
    uchar_t        *data;
    color_t        fg_color;
    color_t        bg_color;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBrow\fR and \fBcol\fR specify at which starting row and column the date is to
be displayed. If \fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to
\fBVIS_TEXT\fR, \fBrow\fR and  \fBcol\fR are defined to be a character offset
from the starting  position of the console device. If \fBmode\fR in the
\fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_PIXEL\fR, \fBrow\fR and  \fBcol\fR
are defined to be a pixel offset from the starting position of  the console
device.
.sp
.LP
\fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR specify the size of the  \fBdata\fR to be
displayed. If \fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to
\fBVIS_TEXT\fR, \fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR define the size of  \fBdata\fR as
a rectangle that is \fBwidth\fR characters wide and \fBheight\fR characters
high. If \fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_PIXEL\fR,
\fBwidth\fR and \fBheight\fR define the size of  \fBdata\fR as a rectangle that
is \fBwidth\fR pixels wide and \fBheight\fR pixels high.
.sp
.LP
\fB*data\fR is a pointer to the data to be displayed on the console device. If
\fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_TEXT\fR, \fBdata\fR
is an array of \fBASCII\fR characters to be displayed on the console device.
The driver must break these characters up appropriately and display it in  the
retangle defined by \fBrow\fR, \fBcol\fR, \fBwidth\fR, and \fBheight\fR. If
\fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_PIXEL\fR,
\fBdata\fR is an array of bitmap data to be displayed on the console device.
The driver must break this data up appropriately and display it in the retangle
defined by \fBrow\fR, \fBcol\fR, \fBwidth\fR, and \fBheight\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfg_color\fR and \fBbg_color\fR fields define the foreground and
background color map indexes to use when displaying the data. \fBfb_color\fR is
used for "on" pixels and \fBbg_color\fR is used for "off" pixels.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIS_CONSCOPY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Copy data from one location on the device to another.  The driver is expected
to copy the specified data.  The source data should not be modified. Any
modifications to the source data should be as a side effect of the copy
destination overlapping the copy source.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The argument is a pointer to a  \fBvis_copy\fR structure which contains the
following fields:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_copy {
    screen_pos_t  s_row;
    screen_pos_t  s_col;
    screen_pos_t  e_row;
    screen_pos_t  e_col;
    screen_pos_t  t_row;
    screen_pos_t  t_col;
    short         direction;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBs_row\fR, \fBs_col\fR, \fBe_row\fR, and \fBe_col\fR define the source
rectangle of the copy. \fBs_row\fR and \fBs_col\fR are the upper left corner of
the source rectangle. \fBe_row\fR and \fBe_col\fR are the lower right corner of
the source rectangle. If \fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR \fBioctl()\fR was
set to \fBVIS_TEXT\fR, \fBs_row\fR, \fBs_col,\fR \fBe_row,\fR and \fBe_col\fR
are defined to be character offsets from the starting  position of the console
device. If \fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to
\fBVIS_PIXEL\fR, \fBs_row\fR, \fBs_col,\fR \fBe_row,\fR and \fBe_col\fR are
defined to be pixel offsets from the starting  position of the console device.
.sp
.LP
\fBt_row\fR and \fBt_col\fR define the upper left corner of the destination
rectangle of the copy. The entire rectangle is copied to this location. If
\fBmode\fR in the \fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_TEXT\fR,
\fBt_row\fR, and \fBt_col\fR are defined to be character offsets from the
starting  position of the console device.   If \fBmode\fR in the
\fBVIS_DEVINIT\fR ioctl was set to \fBVIS_PIXEL\fR, \fBt_row\fR, and
\fBt_col\fR are defined to be pixel offsets from the starting  position of the
console device.
.sp
.LP
\fBdirection\fR specifies which way to do the copy.  If direction is
\fBVIS_COPY_FORWARD\fR the graphics driver should copy data from position
(\fBs_row\fR, \fBs_col\fR) in the source rectangle to position (\fBt_row\fR,
\fBt_col\fR) in the destination rectangle. If direction is
\fBVIS_COPY_BACKWARDS\fR the graphics driver should copy data from position
(\fBe_row\fR, \fBe_col\fR) in the source rectangle to position
\fB(t_row+(e_row-s_row)\fR, \fBt_col+(e_col-s_col))\fR in the destination
rectangle.
.SS "Console Standalone Entry Points  (Polled I/O Interfaces)"
.sp
.LP
Console standalone entry points are necessary only if the driver is
implementing console-compatible extensions. All console vectored standalone
entry points must be implemented along with all console-related ioctls if the
console extension is implemented.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct vis_polledio {
    struct vis_polledio_arg *arg;
    void    (*display)(vis_polledio_arg *, struct vis_consdisplay *);
    void    (*copy)(vis_polledio_arg *, struct vis_conscopy *);
    void    (*cursor)(vis_polledio_arg *, struct vis_conscursor *);
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBvis_polledio\fR structure is passed from the driver to the Solaris
operating environment, conveying the entry point addresses of three functions
which perform the same operations of their similarly named ioctl counterparts.
The rendering parameters for each entry point are derived from the same
structure passed as the respective ioctl. See the Console Optional Ioctls
section of this manpage for an explanation of the specific function each of the
entry points, display(), copy() and cursor() are required to implement. In
addition to performing the prescribed function of their ioctl counterparts, the
standalone vectors operate in a special context and must adhere to a strict set
of rules. The polled I/O vectors are called directly whenever the system is
quisced (running in a limited context) and must send output to the display.
Standalone mode describes the state in which the system is running in
single-threaded mode and only one processor is active.  Solaris operating
environment services are stopped, along with all other threads on the system,
prior to entering any of the polled I/O interfaces. The polled I/O vectors are
called when the system is running in a standalone debugger, when executing the
PROM monitor (OBP) or when panicking.
.sp
.LP
The following restrictions must be observed in the polled I/O functions:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
The driver must not allocate memory.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
The driver must not wait on mutexes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
The driver must not wait for interrupts.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
The driver must not call any DDI or LDI services.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
The driver must not call any system services.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The system is single-threaded when calling these functions, meaning that all
other threads are effectively halted. Single-threading makes mutexes (which
cannot be held) easier to deal with, so long as the driver does not disturb any
shared state. See \fIWriting Device Drivers\fR for more information about
implementing polled I/O entry points.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
On SPARC systems, compatible drivers supporting the kernel terminal emulator
should export the \fBtem-support\fR DDI property.\fBtem-support\fR indicates
that the driver supports the kernel terminal emulator. By exporting
\fBtem-support\fR it's possible to avoid premature handling of an incompatible
driver.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtem-support\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This DDI property, set to 1, means driver is compatible with the console
kernel framebuffer interface.
.RE

