.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 07, 2015
.Dt AVL_DESTROY_NODES 3AVL
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm avl_destroy_nodes
.Nd efficiently remove nodes from an AVL tree
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libavl
.In sys/avl.h
.Ft void *
.Fo avl_destroy_nodes
.Fa "avl_tree_t *tree"
.Fa "void **cookie"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes
function is used to efficiently remove nodes from the AVL tree rooted at
.Fa tree .
.Pp
After the
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes
function is called on an AVL tree, the only valid functions that may be
called on it are additional calls to
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes
and finally
.Fn avl_destroy .
.Pp
Before calling
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes ,
callers must first initialize a value of type
.Vt "void *"
to
.Sy NULL
and pass a pointer to it as the argument
.Fa cookie .
This is an opaque value that will be used to maintain where to next
delete items from the tree. Callers should never modify it after
initializing it. After each call to
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes ,
.Fa cookie
will be updated and must be passed to subsequent calls to
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes.
.Pp
Each time
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes
is called, it will return a pointer to an object that had previously
been inserted into the tree, allowing a caller the opportunity to delete
or clean it up. Once
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes
returns a
.Sy NULL
pointer, then the tree is empty and the caller should proceed to call
.Xr avl_destroy 3AVL .
.Pp
The examples in
.Xr libavl 3LIB
demonstrate the correct usage of this interface.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn avl_destroy_nodes
function will return a pointer to the object just removed from
the tree rooted at
.Fa tree
and if
.Fa tree
is empty, it will return
.Sy NULL .
.Sh EXAMPLES
See the
.Sy EXAMPLES
section in
.Xr libavl 3LIB .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-Level
See
.Sx Locking
in
.Xr libavl 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr avl_destroy 3AVL ,
.Xr libavl 3LIB
