.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 07, 2015
.Dt AVL_INSERT 3AVL
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm avl_insert ,
.Nm avl_insert_here
.Nd insert items into an AVL tree
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libavl
.In sys/avl.h
.Ft void
.Fo avl_insert
.Fa "avl_tree_t *tree"
.Fa "void *new"
.Fa "avl_index_t where"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo avl_insert_here
.Fa "avl_tree_t *tree"
.Fa "void *new"
.Fa "void *here"
.Fa "int direction"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn avl_insert
and
.Fn avl_insert_here
functions are used to add the entry
.Fa new
to the tree rooted at
.Fa tree .
.Pp
The
.Fn avl_insert
function uses the
.Fa where
value, obtained from a call to
.Xr avl_find 3AVL ,
to determine where to insert the new entry into the tree. The tree must
not have been modified inbetween the call to
.Xr avl_find 3AVL
and the call to
.Fn avl_insert .
If callers are not using
.Xr avl_find 3AVL
to validate the presence of
.Fa new
in the tree and only immediately insert it, then
.Xr avl_add 3AVL
may be used instead.
.Pp
The
.Fn avl_insert_here
function is for consumers who are keeping track of recently accessed
data and wish to avoid an additional call to
.Xr avl_find 3AVL .
The new entry,
.Fa new ,
will be inserted starting at the node
.Fa here ,
which must already exist in the tree. To insert the node in the tree
before
.Fa here ,
then the argument
.Fa direction
should have the value
.Dv AVL_BEFORE .
Otherwise, to indicate that the new entry should be inserted after
.Fa here ,
then
.Fa direction
should be set to
.Dv AVL_AFTER .
It is illegal to set
.Fa direction
to anything other than
.Dv AVL_BEFORE
or
.Dv AVL_AFTER .
If this is done, the behavior is not defined.
.Sh EXAMPLES
See the
.Sy EXAMPLES
section in
.Xr libavl 3LIB .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-Level
See
.Sx Locking
in
.Xr libavl 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr avl_add 3AVL ,
.Xr avl_find 3AVL ,
.Xr libavl 3LIB
