#
# CDDL HEADER START
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
# Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
# You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
#
# You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
# or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions
# and limitations under the License.
#
# When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
# file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
# If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
# fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
# information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
#
# CDDL HEADER END
#

#
# Copyright 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
# Use is subject to license terms.
#

#
# Sun::Solaris::Lgrp documentation.
#

=head1 NAME

Lgrp - Perl interface to Solaris liblgrp library.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Sun::Solaris::Lgrp qw(:ALL);

  # initialize lgroup interface
  my $cookie = lgrp_init(LGRP_VIEW_OS | LGRP_VIEW_CALLER);
  my $l = Sun::Solaris::Lgrp->new(LGRP_VIEW_OS | LGRP_VIEW_CALLER);

  my $version = lgrp_version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT | LGRP_VER_NONE);
  $version = $l->version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT | LGRP_VER_NONE);

  $home = lgrp_home(P_PID, P_MYID);
  $home = l->home(P_PID, P_MYID);

  lgrp_affinity_set(P_PID, $pid, $lgrp,
	LGRP_AFF_STRONG | LGRP_AFF_WEAK | LGRP_AFF_NONE);
  $l->affinity_set(P_PID, $pid, $lgrp,
	LGRP_AFF_STRONG | LGRP_AFF_WEAK | LGRP_AFF_NONE);

  my $affinity = lgrp_affinity_get(P_PID, $pid, $lgrp);
  $affinity = $l->affinity_get(P_PID, $pid, $lgrp);

  my $nlgrps = lgrp_nlgrps($cookie);
  $nlgrps = $l->nlgrps();

  my $root = lgrp_root($cookie);
  $root = l->root();

  $latency = lgrp_latency($lgrp1, $lgrp2);
  $latency = $l->latency($lgrp1, $lgrp2);

  my @children = lgrp_children($cookie, $lgrp);
  @children = l->children($lgrp);

  my @parents = lgrp_parents($cookie, $lgrp);
  @parents = l->parents($lgrp);

  my @lgrps = lgrp_lgrps($cookie);
  @lgrps = l->lgrps();

  @lgrps = lgrp_lgrps($cookie, $lgrp);
  @lgrps = l->lgrps($lgrp);

  my @leaves = lgrp_leaves($cookie);
  @leaves = l->leaves();

  my $is_leaf = lgrp_isleaf($cookie, $lgrp);
  $is_leaf = $l->is_leaf($lgrp);

  my @cpus = lgrp_cpus($cookie, $lgrp,
	LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);
  @cpus = l->cpus($lgrp, LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);

  my $memsize = lgrp_mem_size($cookie, $lgrp,
	LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED | LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE,
	LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);
  $memsize = l->mem_size($lgrp,
	LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED | LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE,
	LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);

  my $is_stale = lgrp_cookie_stale($cookie);
  $stale = l->stale();

  lgrp_fini($cookie);

  # The following is available for API version greater than 1:

  my @lgrps = lgrp_resources($cookie, $lgrp, LGRP_RSRC_CPU);

  # Get latencies from cookie
  $latency = lgrp_latency_cookie($cookie, $from, $to);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides access to the C<liblgrp(3LIB)> library and to various
constants and functions defined in C<sys/lgrp_sys.h> header file. It provides
both the procedural and object interface to the library. The procedural
interface requires (in most cases) passing a transparent cookie around. The
object interface hides all the cookie manipulations from the user.

Functions returning scalar value indicate error by returning B<undef>. The
caller may examine the B<$!> variable to get the C<errno> value.

Functions returning list value return the number of elements in the list when
called in scalar context. In case of error the empty list is return in the array
context and B<undef> is returned in the scalar context.

=head2 CONSTANTS

The constants are exported with B<:CONSTANTS> or B<:ALL> tags:

  use Sun::Solaris::Lgrp ':ALL';

or

  use Sun::Solaris::Lgrp ':CONSTANTS';

The following constants are available for use in Perl programs:


  LGRP_NONE

  LGRP_VER_CURRENT
  LGRP_VER_NONE

  LGRP_VIEW_CALLER
  LGRP_VIEW_OS

  LGRP_AFF_NONE
  LGRP_AFF_STRONG
  LGRP_AFF_WEAK

  LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT
  LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY

  LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE
  LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED

  LGRP_RSRC_CPU (1)
  LGRP_RSRC_MEM (1)
  LGRP_CONTENT_ALL (1)
  LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM(1)

  P_PID
  P_LWPID
  P_MYID

(1) Available for versions of the liblgrp(3LIB) API greater than 1.

=head2 functions

A detailed description of each function follows. Since this module is intended
to provide a Perl interface to the routines in L<liblgrp(3LIB)>, a very short
description is given for the corresponding functions in this module and a
reference is given to the complete description in the L<liblgrp(3LIB)> man
pages. Any differences or additional functionality in the Perl module are
highlighted and fully documented here.

=over

=item lgrp_init([LGRP_VIEW_CALLER | LGRP_VIEW_OS])

The function initializes the lgroup interface and takes a snapshot of the lgroup
hierarchy with the given view. Given the view, L<lgrp_init()> returns a cookie
representing this snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy. This cookie should be used
with other routines in the lgroup interface needing the lgroup hierarchy. The
L<lgrp_fini()> function should be called with the cookie when it is no longer
needed. Unlike L<lgrp_init (3LGRP)>, C<LGRP_VIEW_OS> is assumed as the default if
no view is provided.

Upon successful completion, L<lgrp_init()> returns a cookie. Otherwise it returns
B<undef> and sets B<$!> to indicate the error.

See L<lgrp_init(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_fini($cookie)

The function takes a cookie, frees the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy created
by L<lgrp_init()>, and cleans up anything else set up by L<lgrp_init()>. After
this function is called, the cookie returned by the lgroup interface might no
longer be valid and should not be used.

Upon successful completion, 1 is returned. Otherwise, B<undef> is returned and
B<$!> is set to indicate the error.

See L<lgrp_fini(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_view($cookie)

The function takes a cookie representing the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
and returns the snapshot's view of the lgroup hierarchy.

If the given view is C<LGRP_VIEW_CALLER>, the snapshot contains only the
resources that are available to the caller (such as those with respect to
processor sets).  When the view is C<LGRP_VIEW_OS>, the snapshot contains what
is available to the operating system.

Upon succesful completion, the function returns the view for the snapshot of the
lgroup hierarchy represented by the given cookie. Otherwise, B<undef> is
returned and C<$!> is set.

See L<lgrp_view(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_home($idtype, $id)

Returns the home lgroup for the given process or thread. The B<$idtype> argument
should be C<P_PID> to specify a process and the B<$id> argument should be its
process id. Otherwise, the B<$idtype> argument should be C<P_LWPID> to specify a
thread and the B<$id> argument should be its LWP id. The value C<P_MYID> can be
used for the id argument to specify the current process or thread.

Upon successful completion, C<lgrp_home()> returns the id of the home lgroup of
the specified process or thread. Otherwise, B<undef> is returned and B<$!> is
set to indicate the error.

See L<lgrp_home(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_cookie_stale($cookie)

Upon successful completion, the function returns whether the cookie is
stale. Otherwise, it returns B<undef> and sets B<$!> to indicate the error.

The L<lgrp_cookie_stale()> function will fail with C<EINVAL> if the cookie is
not valid.

See L<lgrp_cookie_stale(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_cpus($cookie, $lgrp, $context)

The function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy and
returns the list of CPUs in the lgroup specified by B<$lgrp>. The B<$context>
argument should be set to one of the following values to specify whether the
direct contents or everything in this lgroup including its children should be
returned:

=over

=item LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY

Everything within this hierarchy.

=item LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT

Directly contained in lgroup.

=back

When called in scalar context, L<lgrp_cpus()> function returns the number of
CPUs, contained in the specified lgroup.

In case of error B<undef> is returned in scalar context and B<$!> is set to
indicate the error. In list context the empty list is returned and B<$!> is set.

See L<lgrp_cpus(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_children($cookie, $lgrp)

The function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy and
returns the list of lgroups that are children of the specified lgroup.

When called in scalar context, L<lgrp_children()> function returns the number of
children lgroups for the specified lgroup.

In case of error B<undef> or empty list is returned and B<$!> is set to indicate
the error.

See L<lgrp_children(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_parents($cookie, $lgrp)

The function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy and
returns the list of parent of the specified lgroup.

When called in scalar context, L<lgrp_parents()> function returns the number of
parent lgroups for the specified lgroup.

In case of error B<undef> or empty list is returned and B<$!> is set to indicate
the error.

See L<lgrp_parents(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_nlgrps($cookie)

The function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy.  It
returns the number of lgroups in the hierarchy where the number is always at
least one.

In case of error B<undef> is returned and B<$!> is set to EINVAL indicatng that
the cookie is not valid.

See L<lgrp_nlgrps(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_root($cookie)

The function returns the root lgroup ID.  In case of error B<undef> is returned
and B<$!> is set to EINVAL indicatng that the cookie is not valid.

See L<lgrp_root(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_mem_size($cookie, $lgrp, $type, $content)

The function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy. The
function returns the memory size of the given lgroup in bytes. The B<$type>
argument should be set to one of the following values:

=over

=item LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE

Free memory.

=item LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED

Installed memory.

=back

The B<$content> argument should be set to one of the following values to specify
whether the direct contents or everything in this lgroup including its children
should be returned:

=over

=item LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY

Everything within this hierarchy.

=item LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT

Directly contained in lgroup.

=back

The total sizes include all the memory in the lgroup including its children,
while the others reflect only the memory contained directly in the given lgroup.

Upon successful completion, the size in bytes is returned. Otherwise, B<undef>
is returned and B<$!> is set to indicate the error.

See L<lgrp_mem_size(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_version([$version])

The function takes an interface version number, B$version>, as an argument and
returns an lgroup interface version. The B<$version> argument should be the
value of C<LGRP_VER_CURRENT> or C<LGRP_VER_NONE> to find out the current lgroup
interface version on the running system.

If B<$version> is still supported by the implementation, then L<lgrp_version()>
returns the requested version. If C<LGRP_VER_NONE> is returned, the
implementation cannot support the requested version. 

If B<$version> is C<LGRP_VER_NONE>, L<lgrp_version()> returns the current version of
the library.

The following example  tests  whether  the  version  of  the
interface used by the caller is supported:

    lgrp_version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT) == LGRP_VER_CURRENT or
    	die("Built with unsupported lgroup interface");

See L<lgrp_version(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_affinity_set($idtype, $id, $lgrp, $affinity)

The function sets of LWPs specified by the B<$idtype> and B<$id> arguments have
for the given lgroup.

The function sets the affinity that the LWP or set of LWPs specified by $idtype
and $id have for the given lgroup. The lgroup affinity can be set to
C<LGRP_AFF_STRONG>, C<LGRP_AFF_WEAK>, or C<LGRP_AFF_NONE>.

If the B<$idtype> is C<P_PID>, the affinity is retrieved for one of the LWPs in
the process or set for all the LWPs of the process with process id (PID) B<$id>.
The affinity is retrieved or set for the LWP of the current process with LWP id
$id if idtype is C<P_LWPID>. If $id is C<P_MYID>, then the current LWP or
process is specified.

There are different levels of affinity that can be specified by a thread for a
particuliar lgroup.  The levels of affinity are the following from strongest to
weakest:

=over

=item LGRP_AFF_STRONG

Strong affinity.

=item LGRP_AFF_WEAK

Weak affinity.

=item LGRP_AFF_NONE

No affinity.

=back

Upon successful completion, L<lgrp_affinity_set()> return 1.  Otherwise, it
returns B<undef> and set B<$!> to indicate the error.

See L<lgrp_affinity_set(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_affinity_get($idtype, $id, $lgrp)

The function returns the affinity that the LWP has to a given lgrp. See
L<lgrp_affinity_get()> for detailed description.

See L<lgrp_affinity_get(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_latency_cookie($cookie, $from, $to, [$between=LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM])

The function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy and
returns the latency value between a hardware resource in the $from lgroup to a
hardware resource in the B<$to> lgroup. If B<$from> is the same lgroup as $to, the
latency value within that lgroup is returned.

The optional B<between> argument should be set to C<LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM> to specify
between which hardware resources the latency should be measured. Currently the
only valid value is C<LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM> which represents latency from CPU to
memory.

Upon successful completion, lgrp_latency_cookie() return 1. Otherwise, it
returns B<undef> and set B<$!> to indicate the error. For LGRP API version 1 the
L<lgrp_latency_cookie()> is an alias for L<lgrp_latency()>.

See L<lgrp_latency_cookie(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_latency($from, $to)

The function is similiar to the L<lgrp_latency_cookie()> function, but returns the
latency between the given lgroups at the given instant in time.  Since lgroups
may be freed and reallocated, this function may not be able to provide a
consistent answer across calls.  For that reason, it is recommended that
L<lgrp_latency_cookie()> function be used in its place.

See L<lgrp_latency(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_resources($cookie, $lgrp, $type)

Return the list of lgroups directly containing resources of the specified type.
The resources are represented by a set of lgroups in which each lgroup directly
contains CPU and/or memory resources.

The type can be specified as

=over

=item C<LGRP_RSRC_CPU>

CPU resources

=item C<LGRP_RSRC_MEM>

Memory resources

=back

In case of error B<undef> or empty list is returned and B<$!> is set to indicate
the error.

This function is only available for API version 2 and will return B<undef> or
empty list for API version 1 and set $! to C<EINVAL>.

See C<lgrp_resources(3LGRP)> for more information.

=item lgrp_lgrps($cookie, [$lgrp])

Returns list of all lgroups in a hierarchy starting from $lgrp. If B<$lgrp> is
not specified, uses the value of lgrp_root($cookie). Returns the empty list on
failure.

When called in scalar context, returns the total number of lgroups in the
system.

=item lgrp_leaves($cookie, [$lgrp])

Returns list of all leaf lgroups in a hierarchy starting from $lgrp. If $lgrp is
not specified, uses the value of lgrp_root($cookie). Returns B<undef> or empty
list on failure.

When called in scalar context, returns the total number of leaf lgroups in the
system.

=item lgrp_isleaf($cookie, $lgrp)

Returns B<True> if $lgrp is leaf (has no children), B<False> otherwise.

=back

=head2 Object Methods

=over

=item new([$view])

Creates a new Sun::Solaris::Lgrp object. An optional argument is passed to
L<lgrp_init()> function. By default uses C<LGRP_VIEW_OS>.

=item cookie()

Returns a transparent cookie that may be passed to functions accepting cookie.

=item version([$version])

Without the argument returns the current version of the L<liblgrp(3LIB)>
library. This is a wrapper for L<lgrp_version()> with C<LGRP_VER_NONE> as the
default version argument.

=item stale()

Returns B<T> if the lgroup information in the object is stale, B<F>
otherwise. It is a wrapper for L<lgrp_cookie_stale()>.

=item view()

Returns the snapshot's view of the lgroup hierarchy. It is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_view()>.

=item root()

Returns the root lgroup. It is a wrapper for L<lgrp_root()>.

=item children($lgrp)

Returns the list of lgroups that are children of the specified lgroup. This is a
wrapper for L<lgrp_children()>.

=item parents($lgrp)

Returns the list of lgroups that are parents of the specified lgroup. This is a
wrapper for L<lgrp_parents()>.

=item nlgrps()

Returns the number of lgroups in the hierarchy. This is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_nlgrps()>.

=item mem_size($lgrp, $type, $content)

Returns the memory size of the given lgroup in bytes. This is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_mem_size()>.

=item cpus($lgrp, $context)

Returns the list of CPUs in the lgroup specified by $lgrp. This is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_cpus()>.

=item resources($lgrp, $type)

Returns the list of lgroups directly containing resources of the specified
type. This is a wrapper for L<lgrp_resources()>.

=item home($idtype, $id)

Returns the home lgroup for the given process or thread. This is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_home()>.

=item affinity_get($idtype, $id, $lgrp)

Returns the affinity that the LWP has to a given lgrp. This is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_affinity_get()>.

=item affinity_set($idtype, $id, $lgrp, $affinity)

Sets of LWPs specified by the $idtype and $id arguments have for the given lgroup.
This is a wrapper for L<lgrp_affinity_set()>.

=item lgrps([$lgrp])

Returns list of all lgroups in a hierarchy starting from $lgrp (or the
L<lgrp_root()> if $lgrp is not specified). This is a wrapper for L<lgrp_lgrps()>.

=item leaves([$lgrp])

Returns list of all leaf lgroups in a hierarchy starting from B<$lgrp>. If $lgrp
is not specified, uses the value of lgrp_root(). This is a wrapper for
L<lgrp_leaves()>.

=item isleaf($lgrp)

Returns B<True> if B<$lgrp> is leaf (has no children), B<False> otherwise.
This is a wrapper for L<lgrp_isleaf()>.

=item latency($from, $to)

Returns the latency value between a hardware resource in the $from lgroup to a
hardware resource in the B<$to> lgroup. It will use L<lgrp_latency()> for
version 1 of liblgrp(3LIB) and L<lgrp_latency_cookie()> for newer versions.

=back

=head2 EXPORTS

By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be used
to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:

=over

=item :LGRP_CONSTANTS

LGRP_AFF_NONE, LGRP_AFF_STRONG, LGRP_AFF_WEAK, LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT,
LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY, LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE, LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED,
LGRP_VER_CURRENT, LGRP_VER_NONE, LGRP_VIEW_CALLER, LGRP_VIEW_OS,
LGRP_NONE, LGRP_RSRC_CPU, LGRP_RSRC_MEM, LGRP_CONTENT_ALL,
LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM.

=item :PROC_CONSTANTS

P_PID, P_LWPID P_MYID

=item :CONSTANTS

:LGRP_CONSTANTS, :PROC_CONSTANTS

=item :FUNCTIONS

lgrp_affinity_get(), lgrp_affinity_set(), lgrp_children(), lgrp_cookie_stale(),
lgrp_cpus(), lgrp_fini(), lgrp_home(), lgrp_init(), lgrp_latency(),
lgrp_latency_cookie(), lgrp_mem_size(), lgrp_nlgrps(), lgrp_parents(),
lgrp_root(), lgrp_version(), lgrp_view(), lgrp_resources(),
lgrp_lgrps(), lgrp_leaves(), lgrp_isleaf(), lgrp_lgrps(), lgrp_leaves().

=item :ALL

:CONSTANTS, :FUNCTIONS

=back

=head2 Error values

The functions in this module return B<undef> or an empty list when an underlying
library function fails. The B<$!> is set to provide more information values for
the error. The following error codes are possible:

=over

=item EINVAL

The value supplied is not valid.

=item ENOMEM

There was not enough system memory to complete an operation.

=item EPERM

The effective user of the calling process does not have appropriate privileges,
and its real or effective user ID does not match the real or effective user ID
of one of the threads.

=item ESRCH

The specified  process or thread was not found.

=back

=head2 Difference in the API versions

The C<liblgrp(3LIB)> is versioned. The exact version which was used to compile a
module is available through B<lgrp_version> function.

Version 2 of the lgrpp_user API introduced the following constants and
functions, nbot present in version 1:

=over

=item C<LGRP_RSRC_CPU> constant

=item C<LGRP_RSRC_MEM> constant

=item C<LGRP_CONTENT_ALL> constant

=item C<LGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM> constant

=item C<lgrp_resources()> function

=item C<lgrp_latency_cookie()> function

=back

The C<LGRP_RSRC_CPU> and C<LGRP_RSRC_MEM> are not defined for version 1. The
L<lgrp_resources()> function is defined for version 1 but always returns empty
list. The L<lgrp_latency_cookie()> function is an alias for lgrp_latency for
version 1.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

See L<attributes(7)> for descriptions of the following attributes:

  ___________________________________________________________
 |       ATTRIBUTE TYPE        |       ATTRIBUTE VALUE       |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Availability                | SUNWpl5u                    |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Interface Stability         | Unstable                    |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<liblgrp(3LIB)>,
L<lgrp_affinity_get(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_affinity_set(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_children(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_cookie_stale(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_cpus(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_fini(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_home(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_init(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_latency(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_mem_size(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_nlgrps(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_parents(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_root(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_version(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_view(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_resources(3LGRP)>,
L<lgrp_latency_cookie(3LGRP)>,
L<attributes(7)>

=cut
