'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_GET_HEADER_VALUE 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_get_header_value, sip_get_next_value \- get a SIP header value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst struct sip_value *\fR\fIsip_get_header_value\fR
     (\fBconst struct sip_header *\fR\fIsip_header\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst struct sip_value *\fR\fIsip_get_next_value\fR
     (\fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIold_value\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_header_value()\fR function returns the first valid value from
\fBSIP\fR header \fIsip_header\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_next_value()\fR function returns the next valid value following
the \fBSIP\fR value \fIold_value\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return the queried value on success and \fINULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
If any of the required input is \fINULL\fR or if the specified \fBSIP\fR header
value is marked deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
If the returned \fBSIP\fR header value is invalid (i.e. the parser encountered
errors when parsing the value).
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to
\fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
