'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_DELETE_START_LINE 3SIP "Jan 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_delete_start_line, sip_delete_header, sip_delete_header_by_name,
sip_delete_value \- delete a SIP header or a header value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_start_line\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_header\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_header_by_name\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fImsg\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIheader_name\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fIsip_delete_value\fR(\fBsip_header_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR,
     \fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIsip_header_value\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_delete_start_line()\fR function deletes the start line, a request or
a response line, from the SIP message \fIsip_msg\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_delete_header()\fR function deletes the \fBSIP\fR header specified
by \fIsip_header\fR from the associated \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_delete_header_by_name()\fR function deletes the \fBSIP\fR header
name specified by \fIheader_name\fR (long or compact form) from the \fBSIP\fR
message \fIsip_msg\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_delete_value()\fR deletes the \fBSIP\fR header value specified by
\fIsip_header_value\fR from the \fBSIP\fR header \fIsip_header\fR.
.sp
.LP
When a \fBSIP\fR header or value is deleted, the corresponding header or value
is marked as deleted.  Lookups ignore headers or values that are marked as
deleted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return \fB0\fR on success and the appropriate error on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, the returned error could be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
If any of the required input is \fBNULL\fR.
.sp
If the header or value to be deleted does not exist.
.sp
If the header or value to be deleted has already been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
If the \fBSIP\fR message cannot be modified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
