'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_HOLD_MSG 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_hold_msg, sip_free_msg \- adds and removes a reference from a SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_hold_msg\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_free_msg\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_hold_msg()\fR function adds a reference to the SIP message passed as
the argument. The reference is used to prevent the \fBSIP\fR message from being
freed when in use.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_free_msg()\fR function is used to remove an added reference on the
\fBSIP\fR message passed as the argument. If this is the last reference on the
\fBSIP\fR message (i.e. the number of references on the \fBSIP\fR message is
\fB0\fR), the \fBSIP\fR message is destroyed and associated resources freed.
Freeing a \fBSIP\fR message does not set the \fIsip_msg\fR pointer to
\fINULL\fR. Applications should not expect the pointer to a freed \fBSIP\fR
message to be \fINULL\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
