'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_ADD_HEADER 3SIP "Feb 09, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_add_header \- add a SIP header to the SIP message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_add_header\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIheader_string\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_add_header()\fR function takes the \fBSIP\fR header
\fIheader_string\fR, adds a \fBCRLF\fR (carriage return/line feed) and appends
it to the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. The \fBsip_add_header()\fR function
is typically used when adding a \fBSIP\fR header with multiple values.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_add_header()\fR function returns \fB0\fR on success and the
appropriate error value on failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, the \fBsip_add_header()\fR function can return one of the following
error values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Mandatory parameters are not provided, i.e. null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The message cannot be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Error allocating memory for creating headers/parameters.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
