'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_GET_TRANS 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_get_trans \- lookup a transaction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst struct sip_xaction *\fR\fIsip_get_trans\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR, \fBint\fR \fIwhich\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_trans()\fR transaction for the SIP message \fIsip_msg\fR. A
transaction is not freed if there are any references on it.
.sp
.LP
The transaction type should be specified as one of the following:
.br
.in +2
\fBSIP_CLIENT_TRANSACTON\fR - lookup a client transaction
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBSIP_SERVER_TRANSACTON\fR - lookup a server transaction
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_trans()\fR function matches a transaction to a message as
specified in RFC 3261, sections 17.1.3 and 17.2.3. The \fBsip_get_trans()\fR
function holds a reference to the returned transaction. The caller must release
this reference after use.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_trans()\fR function returns the required value on success or
\fINULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to
\fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
