'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_PROCESS_NEW_PACKET 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_process_new_packet \- send an inbound message to the SIP stack for
processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_process_new_packet\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIconn_object\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fR\fImsgstr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fImsgstr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_process_new_packet()\fR function receives incoming message, creates
a \fBSIP\fR message, processes it and passes it on to the application. For a
byte-stream protocol like \fBTCP\fR \fBsip_process_new_packet()\fR also takes
care of breaking the byte stream into message boundaries using the
\fBCONTENT-LENGTH\fR header in the \fBSIP\fR message. If the \fBSIP\fR message
arriving on \fBTCP\fR does not contain a \fBCONTENT-LENGTH\fR header, the
behavior is unspecified. \fBsip_process_new_packet()\fR deletes the \fBSIP\fR
message on return from the application's receive function, thus if the
application wishes to retain the \fBSIP\fR message for future use, it must use
\fBsip_hod_msg()\fR so that the message is not freed by
\fBsip_process_new_packet()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
