'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_GET_REQUEST_URI_STR 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_get_request_uri_str \- return request URI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst sip_str_t *\fR\fIsip_get_request_uri_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
For functions that return a pointer of type \fIsip_str_t\fR, \fIsip_str_t\fR is
supplied by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct sip_str {
     char *sip_str_ptr;
     int  sip_str_len;
}sip_str_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fIsip_str_ptr\fR parameter points to the start of the returned value and
\fIsip_str_len\fR supplies the length of the returned value.
.sp
.LP
For example, given the following request line in a \fBSIP\fR message input to
\fBsip_get_request_uri_str()\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
INVITE sip:marconi@radio.org SIP/2.0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
the return is a pointer to \fIsip_str_t\fR with the \fIsip_str_ptr\fR member
pointing to "\fBs\fR" of \fBsip:marconi@radio.org\fR and \fIsip_str_len\fR
being set to \fB21\fR, the length of \fBsip:marconi@radio.org\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_request_uri_str()\fR function returns the \fBURI\fR string from
the request line in the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_request_uri_str()\fR function returns the \fBURI\fR string. The
function returns \fBNULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
For the \fBsip_get_request_uri_str()\fR function, there is no request line is
in the \fBSIP\fR message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
For \fIsip_get_request_uri_str\fR, the request \fBURI\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to
\fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
