'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_MSG_TO_STR 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_msg_to_str, sip_hdr_to_str, sip_reqline_to_str, sip_respline_to_str,
sip_sent_by_to_str \- return string representations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_msg_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_hdr_to_str\fR(\fBsip_header_t\fR \fIsip_header\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_reqline_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_respline_to_str\fR(\fBsip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fIsip_sent_by_to_str\fR(\fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_msg_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of the
\fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. Deleted headers are not included in the
returned string. The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_hdr_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of the
\fBSIP\fR header \fIsip_header\fR. The caller is responsible for freeing the
returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_reqline_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of
the request line from the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. The caller is
responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_respline_to_str()\fR function returns the string representation of
the response line from the \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR. The caller is
responsible for freeing the returned string.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_sent_by_to_str()\fR function can be used to retrieve the list of
sent-by values registered with the stack. The returned string is a comma
separated list of sent-by values. The caller is responsible for freeing the
returned string.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_msg_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_hdr_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_reqline_to_str()\fR,
\fBsip_respline_to_str()\fR, and \fBsip_sent_by_to_str()\fR functions return
the relevant string on success and \fBNULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
For the \fBsip_msg_to_str()\fR, \fBsip_hdr_to_str()\fR,
\fBsip_reqline_to_str()\fR, and \fBsip_respline_to_str()\fR, one of the
following values is set if the error is non-null:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Input is null.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Memory allocation failure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to
\fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
