'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_INIT_CONN_OBJECT 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_init_conn_object, sip_clear_stale_data, sip_conn_destroyed \- connection
object related functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBint\fR \fIsip_init_conn_object\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_clear_stale_data\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fIsip_conn_destroyed\fR(\fBsip_conn_object_t\fR \fIobj\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_init_conn_object()\fR function initializes the connection object
\fIobj\fR for use by the stack. The first member of the connection object (a
void *) is used by the stack to store connection object specific stack-private
data.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_clear_stale_data()\fR function is used to clear any stack-private
data in the connection object \fIobj\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_conn_destroyed()\fR function is used to intimate the stack of the
pending destruction of the connection object \fIobj\fR. The stack clean up any
stack-private data in \fIobj\fR and also removes \fIobj\fR from any caches the
stack maintains.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_init_conn_object()\fR function returns \fB0\fR on success and the
appropriate error value on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
