'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_MSG_IS_REQUEST 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_msg_is_request, sip_message_is_response \- determine if the SIP message is
a request or a response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBboolean_t\fR \fIsip_msg_is_request\fR(\fBconst sip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fIsip_msg_is_response\fR(\fBconst sip_msg_t\fR \fIsip_msg\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_msg_is_request()\fR function returns \fBB_TRUE\fR if \fIsip_msg\fR
is a request and \fBB_FALSE\fR otherwise.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_msg_is_response()\fR function returns \fBB_TRUE\fR if \fIsip_msg\fR
is a response and \fBB_FALSE\fR otherwise.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
For functions that return an integer, the return value is the specified value
on success and \fB-1\fR on error.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions take a pointer to an integer \fIerror\fR as an argument. If the
error is non-null, one of the following values is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The input \fBSIP\fR message \fIsip_msg\fR or the header value is null; or the
specified header/header value is deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The header value is not present or invalid. The parser could not parse it
correctly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There is an error allocating memory for the return value.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to
\fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
