'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIP_GET_URI_PARSED 3SIP "Jan 25, 2007"
.SH NAME
sip_get_uri_parsed \- return the parsed URI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsip\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sip.h>

\fBconst struct sip_uri *\fR\fIsip_get_uri_parsed\fR(\fBsip_header_value_t\fR \fIvalue\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIerror\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_uri_parsed()\fR function returns the parsed \fBURI\fR
\fIsip_uri\fR from the \fBSIP\fR header value specified in \fIvalue\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsip_get_uri_parsed()\fR function returns the parsed \fBURI\fR
\fIsip_uri\fR on success. The function returns \fBNULL\fR on failure.
.sp
.LP
The value of \fBerrno\fR is not changed by these calls in the event of an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If the error is non-null, following value is set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fBSIP\fR header value of the \fBSIP\fR message is \fBNULL\fR or there is
no \fBURI\fR.
.sp
The input \fBURI\fR is null or the requested \fBURI\fR component is invalid.
The error flag is set for the requested component.
.sp
The \fBURI\fR parameters or headers are requested from a non-\fBSIP[S]\fR
\fBURI\fR; or the '\fBopaque\fR', '\fBquery\fR', '\fBpath\fR', '\fBreg-name\fR'
components are requested from a \fBSIP[S]\fR \fBURI\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On success, the value of the location pointed to by \fIerror\fR is set to
\fB0\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibsip\fR(3LIB)
