.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Aug 2, 2016
.Dt ACPIDUMP 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm acpidump
.Nd dump ACPI tables
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl bhsvxz
.Op Fl a Ar address
.Op Fl c Ar on|off
.Op Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl n Ar signature
.Op Fl o Ar file
.Op Fl r Ar address
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is used to dump the system's Advanced Configuration and Power Interface
(ACPI) tables that are provided by system firmware. The dumped tables can be
used by other utilities, such as
.Xr acpixtract 1M
or
.Sy iasl .
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a Ar address
Get the table at the given physical address.
.It Fl b
Dump all tables to binary files.
.It Fl c Ar on|off
Enable dumping customized tables. The default is off.
.It Fl f Ar file
Read the table from the given binary file.
.It Fl h
Display the usage message and exit.
.It Fl n Ar signature
Get the table with the specified signature.
.It Fl o Ar file
Write output to the given file.
.It Fl r Ar address
Dump tables from the
.Sy RSDP
at the given address.
.It Fl s
Only print table summaries.
.It Fl v
Print the version.
.It Fl x
Do not use the
.Sy XSDT.
.It Fl z
Verbose.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr acpixtract 1M
