'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUTOMOUNTD 1M "Mar 3, 2005"
.SH NAME
automountd \- autofs mount/unmount daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBautomountd\fR [\fB-Tvn\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIname=value\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBautomountd\fR is an \fBRPC\fR server that answers file system mount and
unmount requests from the \fBautofs\fR file system. It uses local files or name
service maps to locate file systems to be mounted. These maps are described
with the \fBautomount\fR(1M) command.
.sp
.LP
If \fBautomount\fR finds any non-trivial entries in either the local or
distributed automount maps and if the daemon is not running already, the
\fBautomountd\fR daemon is automatically invoked by \fBautomount\fR(1M).
\fBautomountd\fR enables the \fBsvc:/network/nfs/nlockmgr\fR service
(\fBlockd\fR(1M)), and the \fBsvc:/network/nfs/status\fR service
(\fBstatd\fR(1M)), if NFS mounts need to be done.
.sp
.LP
At startup, the \fBautomountd\fR daemon is invoked as is invoked as the
\fBsystem/filesystem/autofs:default\fR service. See NOTES.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fIname=value\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Assign \fIvalue\fR to the indicated \fBautomount\fR map substitution variable.
These assignments cannot be used to substitute variables in the master map
\fBauto_master\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Turn off browsing for all \fBautofs\fR mount points. This option overrides the
\fB-browse\fR \fBautofs\fR map option on the local host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Trace. Expand each \fBRPC\fR call and display it on the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Verbose. Log status messages to the console.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBautomountd\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/auto_master\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Master map for automounter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/autofs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Supplies default values for parameters for \fBautomount\fR and
\fBautomountd\fR. See \fBautofs\fR(4).
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBautomount\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBautofs\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBautomountd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/filesystem/autofs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using \fBsvcs\fR(1). If it is disabled, it is enabled by
\fBautomount\fR(1M) unless the \fBapplication/auto_enable\fR property is set to
\fBfalse\fR.
