.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Peter Grehan
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 2021 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\"
.Dd March 18, 2021
.Dt BHYVE 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bhyve
.Nd "run a guest operating system inside a virtual machine"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl aCDdeHhPSuWwxY
.Oo
.Sm off
.Fl c\~
.Oo
.Op Cm cpus=
.Ar numcpus
.Oc
.Op Cm ,sockets= Ar n
.Op Cm ,cores= Ar n
.Op Cm ,threads= Ar n
.Oc
.Sm on
.Op Fl G Ar port
.Oo Fl B
.Sm off
.Ar type Ns \&,
.Op Ar key Ns = Ns Ar value
.Oo \&, Ns Ar key Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Oc \&...
.Oc
.Sm on
.Op Fl k Ar file
.Oo Fl l
.Sm off
.Cm help \&| Ar lpcdev Op Cm \&, Ar conf
.Sm on
.Oc
.Oo Fl m
.Sm off
.Ar memsize
.Oo
.Cm K No \&| Cm k No \&| Cm M No \&| Cm m No \&| Cm G No \&| Cm g No \&| Cm T No \&| Cm t
.Oc
.Sm on
.Oc
.Op Fl o Ar var Ns Cm = Ns Ar value
.Op Fl r Ar file
.Oo Fl s
.Sm off
.Cm help \&| Ar slot Cm \&, Ar emulation Op Cm \&, Ar conf
.Sm on
.Oc
.Op Fl U Ar uuid
.Ar vmname
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a hypervisor that runs guest operating systems inside a
virtual machine.
.Pp
Parameters such as the number of virtual CPUs, amount of guest memory, and
I/O connectivity can be specified with command-line parameters.
.Pp
.Nm
runs until the guest operating system reboots or an unhandled hypervisor
exit is detected.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Fl a
The guest's local APIC is configured in xAPIC mode.
The xAPIC mode is the default setting so this option is redundant.
It will be deprecated in a future version.
.It Xo
.Fl B
.Sm off
.Ar type Ns \&,
.Op Ar key Ns = Ns Ar value
.Oo \&, Ns Ar key Ns = Ns Ar value Ns Oc \&...
.Sm on
.Xc
Configure smbios data.
.Ar type
must be set to
.Sy 1 .
Supported keys are:
.Sy manufacturer ,
.Sy product ,
.Sy version ,
.Sy serial ,
.Sy sku ,
.Sy family
and
.Sy uuid .
.It Xo Fl c
.Sm off
.Op Oo Cm cpus= Oc Ar numcpus
.Op Cm ,sockets= Ar n
.Op Cm ,cores= Ar n
.Op Cm ,threads= Ar n
.Xc
.Sm on
Number of guest virtual CPUs
and/or the CPU topology.
The default value for each of
.Ar numcpus ,
.Ar sockets ,
.Ar cores ,
and
.Ar threads
is 1.
The current maximum number of guest virtual CPUs is 32.
If
.Ar numcpus
is not specified then it will be calculated from the other arguments.
The topology must be consistent in that the
.Ar numcpus
must equal the product of
.Ar sockets ,
.Ar cores ,
and
.Ar threads .
If a
.Ar setting
is specified more than once the last one has precedence.
.It Fl C
Include guest memory in core file.
.It Fl d
Suspend CPUs at boot.
.It Fl D
Destroy the VM on guest initiated power-off.
.It Fl e
Force
.Nm
to exit when a guest issues an access to an I/O port that is not emulated.
This is intended for debug purposes.
.It Fl G Ar port
Start a debug server that uses the GDB protocol to export guest state to a
debugger.
An IPv4 TCP socket will be bound to the supplied
.Ar port
to listen for debugger connections.
Only a single debugger may be attached to the debug server at a time.
If
.Ar port
begins with
.Sq w ,
.Nm
will pause execution at the first instruction waiting for a debugger to attach.
.It Fl h
Print help message and exit.
.It Fl H
Yield the virtual CPU thread when a HLT instruction is detected.
If this option is not specified, virtual CPUs will use 100% of a host CPU.
.It Fl k Ar file
Set configuration variables from a simple, key-value config file.
Each line of the config file is expected to consist of a config variable
name, an equals sign
.Pq Sq = ,
and a value.
No spaces are permitted between the variable name, equals sign, or
value.
Blank lines and lines starting with
.Sq #
are ignored.
.It Fl l Cm help Ns \&| Ns Ar lpcdev Ns Op , Ns Ar conf
Allow devices behind the LPC PCI-ISA bridge to be configured.
The only supported devices are the TTY-class devices
.Ar com1
through
.Ar com4 ,
the boot ROM device
.Ar bootrom ,
and the debug/test device
.Ar pc-testdev .
.Pp
.Cm help
print a list of supported LPC devices.
.It Fl m Ar memsize Ns Op Ar K|k|M|m|G|g|T|t
Guest physical memory size.
The size argument may be suffixed with one of K, M, G or T (either upper
or lower case) to indicate a multiple of kibibytes, mebibytes, gibibytes,
or tebibytes.
If no suffix is given, the value is assumed to be in mebibytes.
.Pp
.Ar memsize
defaults to 256MiB.
.It Fl o Ar var Ns Cm = Ns Ar value
Set the configuration variable
.Ar var
to
.Ar value .
.It Fl P
Force the guest virtual CPU to exit when a PAUSE instruction is detected.
.It Fl s Cm help Ns \&| Ns Ar slot Ns \&, Ns Ar emulation Ns Op , Ns Ar conf
Configure a virtual PCI slot and function.
.Pp
.Nm
provides PCI bus emulation and virtual devices that can be attached to
slots on the bus.
There are 32 available slots, with the option of providing up to 8 functions
per slot.
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Cm help
print a list of supported PCI devices.
.It Ar slot
.Ar pcislot[:function]
.Ar bus:pcislot:function
.Pp
The
.Ar pcislot
value is 0 to 31.
The optional
.Ar function
value is 0 to 7.
The optional
.Ar bus
value is 0 to 255.
If not specified, the
.Ar function
value defaults to 0.
If not specified, the
.Ar bus
value defaults to 0.
.It Ar emulation
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Li hostbridge \&| Li amd_hostbridge
.Pp
Provide a simple host bridge.
This is usually configured at slot 0, and is required by most guest
operating systems.
The
.Li amd_hostbridge
emulation is identical but uses a PCI vendor ID of
.Li AMD .
.It Li passthru
PCI pass-through device.
.It Li virtio-net-viona
Accelerated Virtio network interface.
.It Li virtio-net
Legacy Virtio network interface.
.It Li virtio-blk
Virtio block storage interface.
.It Li virtio-rnd
Virtio random number generator interface.
.It Li virtio-console
Virtio console interface, which exposes multiple ports
to the guest in the form of simple char devices for simple IO
between the guest and host userspaces.
.It Li ahci
AHCI controller attached to arbitrary devices.
.It Li ahci-cd
AHCI controller attached to an ATAPI CD/DVD.
.It Li ahci-hd
AHCI controller attached to a SATA hard-drive.
.It Li e1000
Intel e82545 network interface.
.It Li uart
PCI 16550 serial device.
.It Li lpc
LPC PCI-ISA bridge with COM1 to COM4 16550 serial ports, a boot ROM, and,
optionally, the debug/test device.
The LPC bridge emulation can only be configured on bus 0.
.It Li fbuf
Raw framebuffer device attached to VNC server.
.It Li xhci
eXtensible Host Controller Interface (xHCI) USB controller.
.It Li nvme
NVM Express (NVMe) controller.
.El
.It Op Ar conf
This optional parameter describes the backend for device emulations.
If
.Ar conf
is not specified, the device emulation has no backend and can be
considered unconnected.
.Pp
.Sy Host Bridge Devices
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Cm model Ns = Ns Ar model
Specify a hostbridge model to emulate.
Valid model strings, and their associated vendor and device IDs are:
.Sy amd Pq 0x1022/0x7432 ,
.Sy netapp Pq 0x1275/0x1275 ,
.Sy i440fx Pq 0x8086/0x1237
and
.Sy q35 Pq 0x8086/0x29b0 .
The default value of
.Ar model
is
.Cm netapp .
.It Cm vendor Ns = Ns Ar vendor
PCI vendor ID.
.It Cm devid Ns = Ns Ar devid
PCI device ID.
.El
.Pp
Providing extra configuration parameters for a host bridge is optional, but if
parameters are provided then either
.Va model
by itself, or both of
.Va vendor
and
.Va devid
must be specified.
.Pp
.Sy Accelerated Virtio Network Backends :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Oo Cm vnic Ns = Oc Ns Ar vnic Ns Oo , Ns Cm feature_mask Ns = Ns Ar mask Oc
.Pp
.Ar vnic
is the name of a configured virtual NIC on the system.
.Ar mask
is applied to the virtio feature flags which are advertised to the guest.
Bits set in the
.Ar mask
value are removed from the advertised features.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Other Network Backends :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Oo Cm vnic Ns = Oc Ns Ar vnic Ns Oo , Ns Ar network-backend-options Oc
.Pp
.Ar vnic
is the name of a configured virtual NIC on the system.
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar network-backend-options
are:
.Bl -tag -width 8n
.It Cm promiscphys
Enable promiscuous mode at the physical level (default: false)
.It Cm promiscsap
Enable promiscuous mode at the SAP level (default: true)
.It Cm promiscmulti
Enable promiscuous mode for all multicast addresses (default: true)
.It Cm promiscrxonly
The selected promiscuous modes are only enabled for received traffic
(default: true).
.El
.Pp
.Sy Block storage devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Pa /filename Ns Oo , Ns Ar block-device-options Oc
.It Pa /dev/xxx Ns Oo , Ns Ar block-device-options Oc
.El
.Pp
The
.Ar block-device-options
are:
.Bl -tag -width 8n
.It Cm nocache
Open the file with
.Dv O_DIRECT .
.It Cm direct
Open the file using
.Dv O_SYNC .
.It Cm ro
Force the file to be opened read-only.
.It Cm sectorsize Ns = Ns Ar logical Ns Oo / Ns Ar physical Oc
Specify the logical and physical sector sizes of the emulated disk.
The physical sector size is optional and is equal to the logical sector size
if not explicitly specified.
.It Cm nodelete
Disable emulation of guest trim requests via
.Dv DIOCGDELETE
requests.
.El
.Pp
TTY devices:
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Cm stdio
Connect the serial port to the standard input and output of
the
.Nm
process.
.It Pa /dev/xxx
Use the host TTY device for serial port I/O.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Boot ROM device :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Pa romfile
Map
.Ar romfile
in the guest address space reserved for boot firmware.
.El
.Pp
.Sy Pass-through devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Pa /dev/ppt Ns Ar N
Connect to a PCI device on the host identified by the specificed path.
.El
.Pp
Guest memory must be wired using the
.Fl S
option when a pass-through device is configured.
.Pp
The host device must have been previously attached to the
.Sy ppt
driver.
.Pp
.Sy Virtio console devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Li port1= Ns Pa /path/to/port1.sock Ns ,anotherport= Ns Pa ...
A maximum of 16 ports per device can be created.
Every port is named and corresponds to a UNIX domain socket created by
.Nm .
.Nm
accepts at most one connection per port at a time.
.Pp
Limitations:
.Bl -bullet -offset 2n
.It
Due to lack of destructors in
.Nm ,
sockets on the filesystem must be cleaned up manually after
.Nm
exits.
.It
There is no way to use the "console port" feature, nor the console port
resize at present.
.It
Emergency write is advertised, but no-op at present.
.El
.El
.Pp
.Sy Framebuffer devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Xo
.Sm off
.Oo
.Cm rfb No = Oo Ar IP \&: Oc Ar port
|
.Cm unix No = Ar path
.Oc
.Op \&, Cm w No = Ar width
.Op \&, Cm h No = Ar height
.Op \&, Cm vga No = Ar vgaconf
.Op \&, Cm wait
.Op \&, Cm password No = Ar password
.Sm on
.Xc
.Bl -tag -width 8n
.It Cm unix Ns = Ns Ar path
The path to a UNIX socket which will be created and where
.Nm
will accept VNC connections.
.It Cm rfb Ns = Ns Ar IPv4:port No or Ar [IPv6%zone]:port
An
.Ar IP
address and a
.Ar port
VNC should listen on.
The default is to listen on localhost IPv4 address and default VNC port 5900.
An IPv6 address must be enclosed in square brackets and may contain an
optional zone identifier.
.It Cm w Ns = Ns Ar width No and Cm h Ns = Ns Ar height
A display resolution, width and height, respectively.
If not specified, a default resolution of 1024x768 pixels will be used.
Minimal supported resolution is 640x480 pixels,
and maximum is 1920x1200 pixels.
.It Cm vga Ns = Ns Ar vgaconf
Possible values for this option are
.Dq io
(default),
.Dq on
, and
.Dq off .
PCI graphics cards have a dual personality in that they are
standard PCI devices with BAR addressing, but may also
implicitly decode legacy VGA I/O space
.Pq Ad 0x3c0-3df
and memory space
.Pq 64KB at Ad 0xA0000 .
The default
.Dq io
option should be used for guests that attempt to issue BIOS calls which result
in I/O port queries, and fail to boot if I/O decode is disabled.
.Pp
The
.Dq on
option should be used along with the CSM BIOS capability in UEFI
to boot traditional BIOS guests that require the legacy VGA I/O and
memory regions to be available.
.Pp
The
.Dq off
option should be used for the UEFI guests that assume that
VGA adapter is present if they detect the I/O ports.
An example of such a guest is
.Ox
in UEFI mode.
.It Cm wait
Instruct
.Nm
to only boot upon the initiation of a VNC connection, simplifying the
installation of operating systems that require immediate keyboard input.
This can be removed for post-installation use.
.It Cm password Ns = Ns Ar password
This type of authentication is known to be cryptographically weak and is not
intended for use on untrusted networks.
Many implementations will want to use stronger security, such as running
the session over an encrypted channel provided by IPsec or SSH.
.El
.El
.Pp
.Sy xHCI USB devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Li tablet
A USB tablet device which provides precise cursor synchronization
when using VNC.
.El
.Pp
.Sy NVMe devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Li path
Accepted device paths are:
.Ar /dev/blockdev
or
.Ar /path/to/image
or
.Ar ram=size_in_MiB .
.It Li maxq
Max number of queues.
.It Li qsz
Max elements in each queue.
.It Li ioslots
Max number of concurrent I/O requests.
.It Li sectsz
Sector size (defaults to blockif sector size).
.It Li ser
Serial number with maximum 20 characters.
.El
.Pp
.Sy AHCI devices :
.Bl -tag -width 10n
.It Li nmrr
Nominal Media Rotation Rate, known as RPM. value 1 will indicate device as Solid State Disk. default value is 0, not report.
.It Li ser
Serial Number with maximum 20 characters.
.It Li rev
Revision Number with maximum 8 characters.
.It Li model
Model Number with maximum 40 characters.
.El
.El
.It Fl S
Wire guest memory.
.It Fl u
RTC keeps UTC time.
.It Fl U Ar uuid
Set the universally unique identifier
.Pq UUID
in the guest's System Management BIOS System Information structure.
By default a UUID is generated from the host's hostname and
.Ar vmname .
.It Fl w
Ignore accesses to unimplemented Model Specific Registers (MSRs).
This is intended for debug purposes.
.It Fl W
Force virtio PCI device emulations to use MSI interrupts instead of MSI-X
interrupts.
.It Fl x
The guest's local APIC is configured in x2APIC mode.
.It Fl Y
Disable MPtable generation.
.It Ar vmname
Alphanumeric name of the guest.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
.Nm
uses an internal tree of configuration variables to describe global and
per-device settings.
When
.Nm
starts,
it parses command line options (including config files) in the order given
on the command line.
Each command line option sets one or more configuration variables.
For example,
the
.Fl s
option creates a new tree node for a PCI device and sets one or more variables
under that node including the device model and device model-specific variables.
Variables may be set multiple times during this parsing stage with the final
value overriding previous values.
.Pp
Once all of the command line options have been processed,
the configuration values are frozen.
.Nm
then uses the value of configuration values to initialize device models
and global settings.
.Pp
More details on configuration variables can be found in
.Xr bhyve_config 4 .
.Sh SIGNAL HANDLING
.Nm
deals with the following signals:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It SIGTERM
Trigger ACPI poweroff for a VM
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
Exit status indicates how the VM was terminated:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It 0
rebooted
.It 1
powered off
.It 2
halted
.It 3
triple fault
.It 4
exited due to an error
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To run a virtual machine with 1GB of memory, two virtual CPUs, a virtio
block device backed by the
.Pa /my/image
filesystem image, and a serial port for the console:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bhyve -c 2 -s 0,hostbridge -s 1,lpc -s 2,virtio-blk,/my/image \e
  -l com1,stdio -A -H -P -m 1G vm1
.Ed
.Pp
Run a 24GB single-CPU virtual machine with three network ports.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bhyve -s 0,hostbridge -s 1,lpc -s 2:0,virtio-net-viona,vmvnic0 \e
  -s 2:1,virtio-net-viona,vmvnic1 -s 2:2,virtio-net-viona,vmvnic2 \e
  -s 3,virtio-blk,/my/image -l com1,stdio \e
  -A -H -P -m 24G bigvm
.Ed
.Pp
Run an 8GB virtual machine with 2 quad core CPUs, 2 NVMe disks and one other
disk attached as a Virtio block device, an AHCI ATAPI CD-ROM, a single viona
network port, an i440fx hostbridge, and the console port connected to a socket.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bhyve -c sockets=2,cores=4,threads=2 \e
  -s 0,hostbridge,model=i440fx -s 1,lpc \e
  -s 1:0,nvme,/dev/zvol/rdsk/tank/hdd0 \e
  -s 1:1,nvme,/dev/zvol/rdsk/tank/hdd1 \e
  -s 1:2,virtio-blk,/dev/zvol/rdsk/tank/hdd1 \e
  -s 2:0,ahci,cd:/images/install.iso \e
  -s 3,virtio-net-viona,vnic=vmvnic0 \e
  -l com1,socket,/tmp/vm.com1,wait \e
  -A -H -P -m 8G
.Ed
.Pp
Run a UEFI virtual machine with a display resolution of 800 by 600 pixels
that can be accessed via VNC at: 0.0.0.0:5900.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
bhyve -c 2 -m 4G -w -H \e
  -s 0,hostbridge \e
  -s 3,ahci-cd,/path/to/uefi-OS-install.iso \e
  -s 4,nvme,/dev/zvol/rdsk/tank/hdd0 \e
  -s 5,virtio-net-viona,vnic=vnmic0 \e
  -s 29,fbuf,rfb=0.0.0.0:5900,w=800,h=600,wait \e
  -s 30,xhci,tablet \e
  -s 31,lpc -l com1,stdio \e
  -l bootrom,/usr/share/bhyve/firmware/BHYVE_UEFI.fd \e
   uefivm
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bhyvectl 1M ,
.Xr bhyve_config 4 ,
.Pp
.Rs
.%A Intel
.%B 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual
.%V Volume 3
.Re
