'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CATMAN 1M "Feb 27, 1998"
.SH NAME
catman \- create the formatted files for the reference manual
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/catman\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-M\fR \fIdirectory\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR \fImacro-package\fR] [\fIsections\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcatman\fR utility creates the preformatted versions of the on-line
manual from the \fBnroff\fR(1) or \fBsgml\fR(5) input files. This feature
allows easy distribution of the preformatted manual pages among a group of
associated machines (for example, with \fBrdist\fR(1)), since it makes the
directories of preformatted manual pages self-contained and independent of the
unformatted entries.
.sp
.LP
\fBcatman\fR also creates the  \fBwindex\fR database file in the directories
specified by the  \fBMANPATH\fR or the  \fB-M\fR option. The \fBwindex\fR
database file is a three column list consisting of a keyword, the reference
page that the keyword points to, and a line of text that describes the purpose
of the utility or interface  documented on the reference page. Each keyword is
taken from the comma separated list of words on the \fBNAME\fR line before the
`\(mi' (dash). The reference page that the keyword points to is the first word
on the  \fBNAME\fR line. The text after the \(mi on the \fBNAME\fR line is the
descriptive text in the third column. The \fBNAME\fR line must be immediately
preceded by the page heading line created by the \fB\&.TH\fR macro (see
\fBNOTES\fR for required format).
.sp
.LP
Each manual page is examined and those whose preformatted versions are missing
or out of date are recreated. If any changes are made, \fBcatman\fR recreates
the \fBwindex\fR database.
.sp
.LP
If a manual page is a \fIshadow\fR page, that is, it sources another manual
page for its contents, a symbolic link is made in the \fBcat\fR\fIx\fR or
\fBfmt\fR\fIx\fR directory to the appropriate preformatted manual page.
.sp
.LP
Shadow files in an unformatted nroff source file are identified by the first
line being of the form \fB\&.so man\fR\fIx\fR\fB/yyy.\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.\fR
.sp
.LP
Shadow files in the \fBSGML\fR sources are identified by the string
\fBSHADOW_PAGE\fR. The file entity declared in the shadow file identifies the
file to be sourced.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Create unformatted nroff source files in the appropriate \fBman\fR
subdirectories from the  \fBSGML\fR sources. This option will overwrite any
existing file in the \fBman\fR directory of the same name as the  \fBSGML\fR
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Do not create (or recreate) the \fBwindex\fR database. If the \fB-n\fR option
is specified, the \fBwindex\fR database is not created and the \fBapropos\fR,
\fBwhatis\fR, \fBman\fR \fB-f\fR, and \fBman\fR \fB-k\fR commands will fail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Print what would be done instead of doing it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Create \fBtroff\fRed entries in the appropriate \fBfmt\fR subdirectories
instead of \fBnroff\fRing into the \fBcat\fR subdirectories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Only create the \fBwindex\fR database that is used by \fBwhatis\fR(1) and the
\fBman\fR(1) \fB-f\fR and \fB-k\fR options.  No manual reformatting is done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR\fI directory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Update manual pages located in the specified \fIdirectory\fR,
(\fB/usr/share/man\fR by default). If the  \fB-M\fR option is specified, the
directory argument must not contain a `,' (comma), since a comma is used to
delineate section numbers. See \fBman\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fI macro-package\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Use \fImacro-package\fR in place of the standard manual page macros, (
\fBman\fR(5) by default).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsections\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
If there is one parameter not starting with a `\fB\(mi\fR\&', it is taken to be
a space separated list of manual sections to be processed by \fBcatman\fR. If
this operand is specified, only the manual sections in the list will be
processed.  For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcatman 1 2 3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

only updates manual sections \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, and \fB3\fR. If specific
sections are not listed, all sections in the  \fBman\fR directory specified by
the environment variable \fBMANPATH\fR are processed.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTROFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The name of the formatter to use when the \fB-t\fR flag is given. If not set,
\fBtroff\fR(1) is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMANPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A colon-separated list of directories that are processed by \fBcatman\fR and
\fBman\fR(1). Each directory can be followed by a comma-separated list of
sections. If set, its value overrides \fB/usr/share/man\fR as the default
directory search path, and the \fBman.cf\fR file as the default section search
path. The \fB-M\fR and \fB-s\fR flags, in turn, override these values.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
default manual directory location
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/man*/*.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
raw nroff input files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/sman*/*.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
raw  \fBSGML\fR input files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/cat*/*.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
preformatted \fBnroff\fRed manual pages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/fmt*/*.*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
preformatted \fBtroff\fRed manual pages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/windex\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
table of contents and keyword database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/makewhatis\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
command script to make  \fBwindex\fR database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/an\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
default macro package
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBapropos\fR(1), \fBman\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1), \fBrdist\fR(1), \fBrm\fR(1),
\fBtroff\fR(1), \fBwhatis\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBman\fR(5),
\fBsgml\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBman?/xxx.? (.so'ed from man?/yyy.?): No such file or directory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file outside the parentheses is missing, and is referred to by the file
inside them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtarget of .so in man?/xxx.? must be relative to /usr/man\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBcatman\fR only allows references to filenames that are relative to the
directory \fB/usr/man\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBopendir:man?:\fR \fBNo\fR \fBsuch\fR \fBfile\fR \fBor\fR
\fBdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A harmless warning message indicating that one of the directories \fBcatman\fR
normally looks for is missing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB*.*:\fR \fBNo\fR \fBsuch\fR \fBfile\fR \fBor\fR \fBdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A harmless warning message indicating \fBcatman\fR came across an empty
directory.
.RE

.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
If a user, who has previously run \fBcatman\fR to install the \fBcat*\fR
directories, upgrades the operating system, the entire \fBcat*\fR directory
structure should be removed prior to running \fBcatman\fR. See \fBrm\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
Do not re-run \fBcatman\fR to re-build the \fBwhatis\fR database unless the
complete set of \fBman*\fR directories is present. \fBcatman\fR builds this
\fBwindex\fR file based on the  \fBman*\fR directories.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
To generate a valid windex index file, \fBcatman\fR has certain requirements.
Within the individual man page file, \fBcatman\fR requires two macro lines to
have a specific format. These are the \fB\&.TH \fRpage heading line and the
\fB\&.SH NAME \fRline.
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.TH \fRmacro requires at least the first three arguments, that is, the
filename, section number, and the date.  The \fB\&.TH \fRline starts off with
the \fB\&.TH \fRmacro, followed by a space, the man page filename, a single
space, the section number, another single space, and the date. The date should
appear in double quotes and is specified as "day month year," with the month
always abbreviated to the first three letters (Jan, Feb, Mar, and so forth).
.sp
.LP
The \fB\&.SH NAME \fRmacro, also known as the \fBNAME \fRline, must immediately
follow the \fB\&.TH \fRline, with nothing in between those lines. No font
changes are permitted in the \fBNAME \fRline. The \fBNAME \fRline is
immediately followed by a line containing the man page filename; then shadow
page names, if applicable, separated by commas; a dash; and a brief summary
statement. These elements should all be on one line; no carriage returns are
permitted.
.sp
.LP
An example of proper coding of these lines is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.TH NISMATCH 1M "Apr "10, 1998""
\&.SH NAME
nismatch, nisgrep \e- utilities for searching NIS+ tables
.fi
.in -2

