'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CLINFO 1M "Mar 12, 2002"
.SH NAME
clinfo \- display cluster information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBclinfo\fR [\fB-nh\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBclinfo\fR command displays cluster configuration information about the
node from which the command is executed.
.sp
.LP
Without arguments, \fBclinfo\fR returns an exit status of \fB0\fR if the node
is configured and booted as part of a cluster. Otherwise, \fBclinfo\fR returns
an exit status of \fB1\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the highest node number allowed to be configured. This is different
from the maximum number of nodes supported in a given cluster. The current
highest configured node number can change immediately after the command returns
since new nodes can be dynamically added to a running cluster.
.sp
For example, \fBclinfo\fR \fB-h\fR might return \fB64\fR, meaning that the
highest number you can use to identify a node is \fB64\fR. See the \fISun
Cluster 3.0 System Administration Guide\fR for a description of utilities you
can use to determine the number of nodes in a cluster.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints the number of the node from which \fBclinfo\fR is executed.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
An error occurred.
.sp
This is usually because the node is not configured or booted as part of a
cluster.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
