'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CONSADM 1M "Oct 27, 2004"
.SH NAME
consadm \- select or display devices used as auxiliary console devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/consadm\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/consadm\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIdevice\fR.\|.\|.] [\fB-p\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/consadm\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR.\|.\|.] [\fB-p\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/consadm\fR [\fB-p\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBconsadm\fR selects the hardware \fIdevice\fR or devices to be used as
auxiliary console devices, or displays the current device. Only superusers are
allowed to make or display auxiliary console device selections.
.sp
.LP
Auxiliary console devices receive copies of \fBconsole\fR messages, and can be
used as the console during \fBsingle user\fR mode. In particular, they receive
kernel messages and messages directed to \fB/dev/sysmsg\fR. On Solaris x86
based systems they can also be used for interaction with the bootstrap.
.sp
.LP
By default, selecting a display device to be used as an auxiliary console
device selects that device for the duration the system remains up. If the
administrator needs the selection to persist across reboots the \fB-p\fR option
can be specified.
.sp
.LP
\fBconsadm\fR runs a daemon in the background, monitoring auxiliary console
devices. Any devices that are disconnected (hang up, lose carrier) are removed
from the auxiliary console device list, though not from the persistent list.
While auxiliary console devices may have been removed from the device list
receiving copies of \fBconsole\fR messages, those messages will always continue
to be displayed by the default console device.
.sp
.LP
The daemon will not run if it finds there are not any auxiliary devices
configured to monitor. Likewise, after the last auxiliary console is removed,
the daemon will shut itself down. Therefore the daemon persists for only as
long as auxiliary console devices remain active.
.sp
.LP
See \fBeeprom\fR(1M) for instructions on assigning an auxiliary console device
as the system console.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Adds \fIdevice\fR to the list of auxiliary console devices. Specify
\fIdevice\fR as the path name to the device or devices to be added to the
auxiliary console device list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes \fIdevice\fR from the list of auxiliary console devices. Specify
\fIdevice\fR as the path name to the device or devices to be removed from the
auxiliary console device list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Prints the list of auxiliary consoles that will be auxiliary across reboots.
.sp
When invoked with the \fB-a\fR or \fB-d\fR options , tells the application to
make the change persist across reboot.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRAdding to the list of devices that will receive console
messages
.sp
.LP
The following command adds \fB/dev/term/a\fR to the list of devices that will
receive console messages.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBconsadm -a /dev/term/a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRRemoving from the list of devices that will receive console
messages
.sp
.LP
The following command removes \fB/dev/term/a\fR from the list of devices that
will receive console messages. This includes removal from the persistent list.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBconsadm -d -p /dev/term/a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRPrinting the list of devices selected as auxiliary console
devices
.sp
.LP
The following command prints the name or names of the device or devices
currently selected as auxiliary console devices.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBconsadm\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBconsadm\fR: \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR,
and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB>\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability Level	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBeeprom\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslogd\fR(1M),
\fBkadb\fR(1M), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5),
\fBsysmsg\fR(7d), \fBconsole\fR(7d)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Auxiliary console devices are not usable for \fBkadb\fR or firmware \fBI/O\fR,
do not receive panic messages, and do not receive output directed to
\fB/dev/console\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBconsadm\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/consadm
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
