'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CONV_LP 1M "Sep 9, 1996"
.SH NAME
conv_lp \- convert LP configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBconv_lp\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdir\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBconv_lp\fR reads  \fBLP\fR printer configuration information from a
directory and converts it to an output file for use with print client software.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The root (`\fB / \fR') directory from which  \fBLP\fR configuration information
is read.   The default is root (`\fB / \fR').
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The output file to which  \fBconv_lp\fR writes the converted  \fBLP\fR
configuration information.  The default is \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConverting  \fBLP\fR Configuration Information from the Default
Directory and File
.sp
.LP
The following example  converts  \fBLP\fR configuration information from
directory root (\fB/\fR) to file \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBconv_lp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRConverting  \fBLP\fR Configuration Information From a Specified
Directory and File
.sp
.LP
The following example  converts \fBLP\fR configuration information from
directory \fB/export/root/client\fR to file
\fB/export/root/client/etc/printers.conf\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBconv_lp -d /export/root/client -f\e
   /export/root/client/etc/printers.conf\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/printers.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
System printer configuration database.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlpset\fR(1M), \fBprinters.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
