'\" te
.\" Copyright 2005 (c), Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DCS 1M "Apr 25, 2006"
.SH NAME
dcs \- domain configuration server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/dcs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsessions\fR]
     [ [\fB-a\fR \fIauth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIencr\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIesp_auth\fR] ] [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Domain Configuration Server (DCS) is a daemon process that runs on Sun
servers that support remote Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR) clients. It is started
by the Service Management Facility (see \fBsmf\fR(5)) when the first DR request
is received from a client connecting to the network service \fBsun-dr\fR. After
the DCS accepts a DR request, it uses the \fBlibcfgadm\fR(3LIB) interface to
execute the DR operation. After the operation is performed, the results are
returned to the client.
.sp
.LP
The DCS listens on the network service labeled \fBsun-dr\fR. Its underlying
protocol is TCP. It is invoked as a server program by the SMF using the TCP
transport. The fault management resource identifier (FMRI) for DCS is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you disable this service, DR operations initiated from a remote host fail.
There is no negative impact on the server.
.sp
.LP
Security for the DCS connection is provided differently based upon the
architecture of the system. The SMF specifies the correct options when invoking
the DCS daemon, based upon the current architecture. For all architectures,
security is provided on a per-connection basis.
.sp
.LP
The DCS daemon has no security options that are applicable when used on a Sun
Enterprise 10000 system. So there are no options applicable to that
architecture.
.sp
.LP
The security options for Sun Fire high-end systems are based on IPsec options
defined as SMF properties. These options include the \fB-a\fR \fIauth\fR,
\fB-e\fR \fIencr\fR, and \fB-u\fR \fIesp_auth\fR options, and can be set using
the \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) command. These options must match the IPsec policies
defined for DCS on the system controller. Refer to the \fBkmd(1M)\fR man page
in the \fISystem Management Services (SMS) Reference Manual\fR. The
\fBkmd(1M)\fR man page is not part of the SunOS man page collection.
.sp
.LP
Security on SPARC Enterprise Servers is not configurable. The DCS daemon uses a
platform-specific library to configure its security options when running on
such systems. The \fB-l\fR option is provided by the SMF when invoking the DCS
daemon on SPARC Enterprise Servers. No other security options to the DCS daemon
should be used on SPARC Enterprise Servers.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIauth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Controls the IPsec Authentication Header (AH) algorithm. \fIauth\fR can be one
of \fBnone\fR, \fBmd5\fR, or \fBsha1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIencr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Controls the IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) encryption algorithm.
\fIencr\fR can be one of \fBnone\fR, \fBdes\fR, or \fB3des\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Enables the use of platform-specific security options on SPARC Enterprise
Servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsessions\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Sets the number of active sessions that the DCS allows at any one time. When
the limit is reached, the DCS stops accepting connections until active sessions
complete the execution of their DR operation. If this option is not specified,
a default value of 128 is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIesp_auth\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Controls the IPsec Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) authentication
algorithm. \fIesp_auth\fR can be one of \fBnone\fR, \fBmd5\fR, or \fBsha1\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSetting an IPSec Option
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the Authentication Header algorithm for the DCS
daemon to use the HMAC-MD5 authentication algorithm. These settings are only
applicable for using the DCS daemon on a Sun Fire high-end system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs setprop dcs/ah_auth = "md5"\fR
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs setprop dcs/esp_encr = "none"\fR
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs setprop dcs/esp_auth = "none"\fR
# \fBsvcadm refresh svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The DCS uses \fBsyslog\fR(3C) to report status and error messages. All of the
messages are logged with the \fBLOG_DAEMON\fR facility. Error messages are
logged with the \fBLOG_ERR\fR and \fBLOG_NOTICE\fR priorities, and
informational messages are logged with the \fBLOG_INFO\fR priority. The default
entries in the \fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR file log all of the DCS error messages to
the \fB/var/adm/messages\fR log.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBcfgadm_sbd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M),
\fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBconfig_admin\fR(3CFGADM), \fBlibcfgadm\fR(3LIB),
\fBsyslog.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBdr\fR(7D)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBdcs\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the fault management resource identifier (FMRI):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/dcs:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
