'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DFMOUNTS_NFS 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
dfmounts_nfs \- display mounted NFS resource information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdfmounts\fR [\fB-F\fR nfs] [\fB-h\fR] [\fIserver\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdfmounts\fR shows the local resources shared through  \fBNFS,\fR along with
the list of clients that have mounted the resource. The \fB-F\fR flag may be
omitted if  \fBNFS\fR is the only file system type listed in the file
\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBdfmounts\fR without options, displays all remote resources mounted on the
local system, regardless of file system type.
.sp
.LP
The output of \fBdfmounts\fR consists of an optional header line (suppressed
with the \fB-h\fR flag) followed by a list of lines containing
whitespace-separated fields.  For each resource, the fields are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIresource server pathname clients ...\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Does not apply to  \fBNFS.\fR Printed as a hyphen (-).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserver\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies the system from which the resource was mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies the pathname that must be given to the \fBshare\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIclients\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Is a comma-separated list of systems that have mounted the resource.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fBnfs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Specifies the \fBnfs\fR-FSType.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Suppress header line in output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserver\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Displays information about the resources mounted from each server, where
\fIserver\fR can be any system on the network.  If no server is specified, the
\fIserver\fR is assumed to be the local system.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmount\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M), \fBunshare\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
