'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DFSHARES_NFS 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
dfshares_nfs \- list available NFS resources from remote systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdfshares\fR [\fB-F\fR nfs] [\fB-h\fR] [\fIserver\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdfshares\fR provides information about resources available to the host
through \fBNFS.\fR The \fB-F\fR flag may be omitted if  \fBNFS\fR is the first
file system type listed in the file \fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR.
.sp
.LP
The query may be restricted to the output of resources available from one or
more servers.
.sp
.LP
\fBdfshares\fR without arguments displays all resources shared on the local
system, regardless of file system type.
.sp
.LP
Specifying  \fIserver\fR displays information about the resources shared by
each server. \fIServer\fR can be any system on the network.  If no server is
specified, then     \fIserver\fR is assumed to be the local system.
.sp
.LP
The output of \fBdfshares\fR consists of an optional header line (suppressed
with the \fB-h\fR flag) followed by a list of lines containing
whitespace-separated fields.  For each resource, the fields are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIresource server access transport\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the resource name that must be given to the \fBmount\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserver\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the system that is making the resource available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaccess\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the access permissions granted to the client systems;  however,
\fBdfshares\fR cannot determine this information for an  \fBNFS\fR resource and
populates the field with a hyphen (-).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItransport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the transport provider over which the \fIresource\fR  is shared;
however, \fBdfshares\fR cannot determine this information for an  \fBNFS\fR
resource and populates the field with a hyphen (-).
.RE

.sp
.LP
A field may be null.  Each null field is indicated by a hyphen (-) unless the
remainder of the fields on the line are also null;  in which case, the hyphen
may be omitted.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fBnfs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Specify the  \fBNFS\fR file system type
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Suppress header line in output.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmount\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M), \fBunshare\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
