'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DFSHARES 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
dfshares \- list available resources from remote or local systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdfshares\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] [\fIserver\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdfshares\fR provides information about resources available to the host
through a distributed file system of type \fIFSType\fR. \fIspecific_options\fR
as well as the semantics of \fIserver\fR are specific to particular distributed
file systems.
.sp
.LP
If \fBdfshares\fR is entered without arguments, all resources  currently shared
on the local system are displayed, regardless  of file system type.
.sp
.LP
The output of \fBdfshares\fR consists of an optional header line (suppressed
with the \fB-h\fR flag) followed by a list of lines containing
whitespace-separated fields.  For each resource, the fields are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIresource server access transport\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the resource name that must be given to the \fBmount\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserver\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the name of the system that is making the resource available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaccess\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the access permissions granted to the client systems, either \fBro\fR
(for read-only) or \fBrw\fR (for read/write). If \fBdfshares\fR cannot
determine access permissions, a hyphen  (\fB\(mi\fR) is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItransport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the transport provider over which the resource is shared.
.RE

.sp
.LP
A field may be null. Each null field is indicated by a hyphen (\(mi) unless the
remainder of the fields on the line are also null; in which case, the hyphen
may be omitted.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Specify filesystem type.  Defaults to the first entry in
\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Suppress header line in output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Specify options specific to the filesystem provided by the \fB-F\fR option.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdfmounts\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M), \fBunshare\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
