'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DHCPCONFIG 1M "Jun 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dhcpconfig \- DHCP service configuration utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-D\fR \fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR \fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlease_length\fR] [\fB-n\fR ] [\fB-d\fR \fIDNS_domain\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR \fIDNS_server_addresses\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhosts_resource\fR]
     [\fB-y\fR \fIhosts_domain\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-R\fR \fIserver_addresses\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-U\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-h\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-N\fR \fInetwork_address\fR [\fB-m\fR \fIsubnet_mask\fR] [\fB-b\fR ]
     [\fB-t\fR \fIrouter_addresses\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fINIS-domain\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR \fINIS_server_addresses\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-C\fR \fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR \fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-k\fR]
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-X\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fB-m\fR \fImacro_list\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoption_list\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR \fInetwork_addresses\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-I\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-P\fR [\fIparameter\fR[=\fIvalue\fR],]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpconfig\fR \fB-S\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-e\fR | \fB-d\fR | \fB-r\fR | \fB-q\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdhcpconfig\fR command is used to configure and manage the Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol (DHCP) service or BOOTP relay services. It is intended
for use by experienced Solaris system administrators and is designed for ease
of use in scripts. The \fBdhcpmgr\fR utility is recommended for less
experienced administrators or those preferring a graphical utility to configure
and manage the DHCP service or BOOTP relay service.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdhcpconfig\fR command can be run by root, or by other users assigned to
the DHCP Management profile. See \fBrbac\fR(5) and \fBuser_attr\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpconfig\fR requires one of the following function flags: \fB-D\fR,
\fB-R\fR, \fB-U\fR, \fB-N\fR, \fB-C\fR, \fB-X\fR, \fB-I\fR, \fB-P\fR or
\fB-S\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdhcpconfig\fR menu driven mode is supported in Solaris 8 and previous
versions of Solaris.
.SS "Where dhcpconfig Obtains Configuration Information"
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpconfig\fR scans various configuration files on your Solaris machine for
information it can use to assign values to options contained in macros it adds
to the \fBdhcptab\fR configuration table. The following table lists information
\fBdhcpconfig\fR needs, the source used, and how the information is used:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l | l
l | l | l .
\fIInformation\fR	\fISource\fR	\fIWhere Used\fR
_
Timezone	System date, timezone settings	\fBLocale\fR macro
DNS parameters	\fBnsswitch.conf\fR, \fB/etc/resolv.conf\fR	Server macro
NIS parameters	System domainname, \fBnsswitch.conf\fR, NIS	Network macros
Subnetmask	T{
Network interface, \fBnetmasks\fR table in nameservice
T}	Network macros
.TE

.sp
.LP
If you have not set these parameters on your server machine, you should do so
before configuring the DHCP server with \fBdhcpconfig\fR. Note that if you
specify options with the \fBdhcpconfig \fR\fB-D\fR command line, the values you
supply override the values obtained from the system files.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Convert to using a new data store, recreating the DHCP data tables in a format
appropriate to the new data store, and setting up the DHCP server to use the
new data store.
.sp
The following sub-options are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpath_to_data\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The paths for \fBSUNWfiles\fR and \fBSUNWbinfiles\fR must be absolute
\fBUNIX\fR pathnames. The path for \fBSUNWnisplus\fR must be a fully specified
\fBNIS+\fR directory (including the tailing period.) See \fBdhcp_modules\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIdata_resource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
New data store resource. One of the following must be specified:
\fBSUNWfiles\fR, \fBSUNWbinfiles\fR, or \fBSUNWnisplus\fR. See
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5).
.RE

The following sub-options are optional:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Do not prompt for confirmation. If \fB-f\fR is not used, a warning and
confirmation prompt are issued before the conversion starts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Keep the old DHCP data tables after successful conversion. If any problem
occurs during conversion, tables are not deleted even if \fB-k\fR sub-option is
not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Data which is ignored by \fBdhcpconfig\fR, but passed on to the datastore for
interpretation. The private layer provides for module-specific configuration
information through the use of the \fBRESOURCE_CONFIG \fR keyword.
Uninterpreted data is stored within \fBRESOURCE_CONFIG\fR keyword of
\fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4). The \fB-u\fR sub-option is not used with the
\fBSUNWfiles\fR, \fBSUNWbinfiles\fR, and \fBSUNWnisplus\fR data stores. See
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Configure the \fBDHCP\fR service.
.sp
The following sub-options are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIdata_resource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
One of the following must be specified: \fBSUNWfiles\fR, \fBSUNWbinfiles\fR, or
\fBSUNWnisplus\fR. Other data stores may be available.See
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The paths for \fBSUNWfiles\fR and \fBSUNWbinfiles\fR must be absolute
\fBUNIX\fR pathnames. The path for \fBSUNWnisplus\fR must be a fully specified
\fBNIS+\fR directory (including the tailing period.) . See
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5).
.RE

The following sub-options are optional:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIDNS_servers\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
IP addresses of DNS servers, separated with commas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIDNS_domain\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
DNS domain name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fIhosts_resource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Resource in which to place hosts data. Usually, the name service in use on the
server. Valid values are \fBnisplus\fR, \fBfiles\fR, or \fBdns\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIseconds\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Lease length used for addresses not having a specified lease length, in
seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Non-negotiable leases
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR \fIhosts_domain\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
DNS or NIS+ domain name to be used for hosts data. Valid only if \fBdns\fR or
\fBnisplus\fR is specified for \fB-h\fR sub-option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Data which is ignored by \fBdhcpconfig\fR, but passed on to the datastore for
interpretation. The private layer provides for module-specific configuration
information through the use of the \fBRESOURCE_CONFIG \fR keyword.
Uninterpreted data is stored within \fBRESOURCE_CONFIG\fR keyword of
\fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4). The \fB-u\fR sub-option is not used with the
\fBSUNWfiles\fR, \fBSUNWbinfiles\fR, and \fBSUNWnisplus\fR data stores. See
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Import data from \fIfilename\fR, containing data previously exported from a
Solaris DHCP server. Note that after importing, you may have to edit macros to
specify the correct domain names, and edit network tables to change the owning
server of addresses in imported networks. Use \fBdhtadm\fR and \fBpntadm\fR to
do this.
.sp
The following sub-options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Replace any conflicting data with the data being imported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Signal the daemon to reload the \fBdhcptab\fR once the import has been
completed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fInet_address\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Configure an additional network for DHCP service.
.sp
The following sub-options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fINIS_server_addresses\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
List of IP addresses of NIS servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Network is a point-to-point (PPP) network, therefore no broadcast address
should be configured. If \fB-\fRb is not used, the network is assumed to be a
LAN, and the broadcast address is determined using the network address and
subnet mask.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Signal the daemon to reload the \fBdhcptab\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Subnet mask for the network; if \fB-m\fR is not used, subnet mask is obtained
from netmasks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIrouter_addresses\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
List of router IP addresses; if not specified, router discovery flag is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR \fINIS_domain_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
If NIS is used on this network, specify the NIS domain name.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Configure the DHCP service parameters. Each parameter and value are specified
by the following pattern:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIparameter\fR[=\fIvalue\fR],\&.\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Where parameter and value are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIparameter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
One of the DHCP service parameters listed in \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4). If the
corresponding \fIvalue\fR is not specified, the current parameter value is
displayed. If \fIparameter\fR is not specified, all parameters and current
values are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Optional string to set the servers parameter to if the value is acceptable. If
the value is missing or is empty (\fB""\fR), the parameter and its current
value are deleted.
.RE

After a parameter has changed the DHCP server requires re-starting before you
can use new parameter values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIserver_addresses\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Configure the BOOTP relay service. BOOTP or DHCP requests are forwarded to the
list of servers specified.
.sp
\fIserver_addresses\fR is a comma separated list of hostnames and/or IP
addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Control the DHCP service.
.sp
The following sub-options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
 Disable and stop the DHCP service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Enable and start the DHCP service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display the state of the DHCP service. The state is encoded into the exit
status.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0    DHCP service disabled and stopped
1    DHCP service enabled and stopped
2    DHCP service disabled and running
3    DHCP service enabled and running
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Enable and restart the DHCP service.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Unconfigure the DHCP service or BOOTP relay service.
.sp
The following sub-options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Do not prompt for confirmation. If \fB-f\fR is not used, a warning and
confirmation prompt is issued.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Delete hosts entries from name service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Delete the \fBdhcptab\fR and network tables.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Export data from the DHCP data tables, saving to \fIfilename\fR, to move the
data to another Solaris DHCP server.
.sp
The following sub-options are optional:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fInetworks_to_export\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
List of networks whose addresses should be exported, or the keyword ALL to
specify all networks. If \fB-a\fR is not specified, no networks are exported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Signal the daemon to reload the \fBdhcptab\fR after the export has been
completed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImacros_to_export\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
List of macros to export, or the keyword \fBALL\fR to specify all macros. If
\fB-m\fR is not specified, no macros are exported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIoptions_to_export\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
List of options to export, or the keyword \fBALL\fR to specify all options. If
\fB-o\fR is not specified, no options are exported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Delete the data from this server after it is exported. If \fB-x\fR is not
specified you are in effect copying the data.
.RE

.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConfiguring DHCP Service with Binary Files Data Store
.sp
.LP
The following command configures DHCP service, using the binary files data
store, in the DNS domain \fBacme.eng\fR, with a lease time of 28800 seconds (8
hours),

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -D -r SUNWbinfiles -p /var/dhcp -l 28800\e
             -d acme.eng -a 120.30.33.4 -h dns -y acme.eng
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRConfiguring BOOTP Relay Agent
.sp
.LP
The following command configures the DHCP daemon as a BOOTP relay agent, which
forwards BOOTP and DHCP requests to the servers having the IP addresses
120.30.33.7 and 120.30.42.132:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -R 120.30.33.7,120.30.42.132
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUnconfiguring DHCP Service
.sp
.LP
The following command unconfigures the DHCP service, with confirmation, and
deletes the DHCP data tables and host table entries:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -U -x -h
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRConfiguring a Network for DHCP Service
.sp
.LP
The following command configures an additional LAN network for DHCP service,
specifying that clients should use router discovery and providing the NIS
domain name and NIS server address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -N 120.30.171.0 -y east.acme.eng.com\e
             -a 120.30.33.4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRConverting to SUNWnisplus Data Store
.sp
.LP
The following command converts a DHCP server from using a text or binary files
data store to a NIS+ data store, deleting the old data store's DHCP tables:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -C -r SUNWnisplus -p whatever.com.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRExporting a Network, Macros, and Options from a DHCP Server
.sp
.LP
The following command exports one network (\fB120.30.171.0\fR) and its
addresses, the macro \fB120.30.171.0\fR, and the options \fBmotd\fR and
\fBPSptr\fRfrom a DHCP server, saves the exported data in file
\fB/export/var/120301710_data\fR, and deletes the exported data from the
server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -X /var/dhcp/120301710_export
     -a 120.30.171.0 -m 120.30.171.0 -o motd,PSptr
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRImporting Data on a DHCP Server
.sp
.LP
The following command imports DHCP data from a file,
\fB/net/golduck/export/var/120301710_data\fR, containing data previously
exported from a Solaris DHCP server, overwrites any conflicting data on the
importing server, and signals the daemon to reload the \fBdhcptab\fR once the
import is completed:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# dhcpconfig -I /net/golduck/export/var/120301710_data -f -g
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRSetting DHCP Server Parameters
.sp
.LP
 The following command sets the number of minutes that the DHCP server waits
before timing out when updating DNS information on DHCP clients to five
minutes.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# example# dhcpconfig -P UPDATE_TIMEOUT=5
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9 \fRRe-starting the DHCP server
.sp
.LP
The following command stops and re-starts the DHCP server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example#  example# dhcpconfig -S -r
DHCP server stopped
DHCP server started
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M), \fBdhtadm\fR(1M), \fBin.dhcpd\fR(1M), \fBpntadm\fR(1M),
\fBdhcp_network\fR(4), \fBdhcptab\fR(4), \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4),
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBresolv.conf\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdhcp\fR(5), \fBdhcp_modules\fR(5), \fBrbac\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
