'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002 by Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DHTADM 1M "Aug 28, 2004"
.SH NAME
dhtadm \- DHCP configuration table management utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-C\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-A\fR \fB-s\fR \fIsymbol_name\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdefinition\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-A\fR \fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdefinition\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-M\fR \fB-s\fR \fIsymbol_name\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdefinition\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-M\fR \fB-s\fR \fIsymbol_name\fR \fB-n\fR \fInew_name\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR \fB-n\fR \fInew_name\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR]
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdefinition\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR \fB-e\fR \fIsymbol=value\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-D\fR \fB-s\fR \fIsymbol_name\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR]
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-D\fR \fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR]
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-P\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-R\fR [\fB-r\fR \fIresource\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIuninterpreted\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhtadm\fR \fB-B\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIbatchfile\fR] [\fB-g\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdhtadm\fR manages the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (\fBDHCP\fR)
service configuration table, \fBdhcptab\fR. You can use it to add, delete, or
modify \fBDHCP\fR configuration macros or options or view the table. For a
description of the table format, see \fBdhcptab\fR(4).)
.sp
.LP
The \fBdhtadm\fR command can be run by root, or by other users assigned to the
DHCP Management profile. See \fBrbac\fR(5) and \fBuser_attr\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
After you make changes with \fBdhtadm\fR, you should issue a \fBSIGHUP\fR to
the DHCP server, causing it to read the \fBdhcptab\fR and pick up the changes.
Do this using the \fB-g\fR option.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
One of the following function flags must be specified with the \fBdhtadm\fR
command: \fB-A\fR, \fB-B\fR, \fB-C\fR, \fB-D\fR, \fB-M\fR, \fB-P\fR or
\fB-R\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Add a symbol or macro definition to the \fBdhcptab\fR table.
.sp
The following sub-options are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdefinition\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specify a macro or symbol definition.
.sp
\fIdefinition\fR must be enclosed in single quotation marks. For macros, use
the form \fB-d\fR
\fB\&':\fIsymbol\fR=\fIvalue\fR:\fIsymbol\fR=\fIvalue\fR:'\fR. Enclose a
\fIvalue\fR that contains colons in double quotation marks. For symbols, the
definition is a series of fields that define a symbol's characteristics. The
fields are separated by commas. Use the form \fB-d\fR
\fB\&'\fIcontext\fR,\fIcode\fR,\fItype\fR,\fIgranularity\fR,\fImaximum\fR'\fR.
See \fBdhcptab\fR(4) for information about these fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specify the name of the macro to be added.
.sp
The \fB-d\fR option must be used with the \fB-m\fR option. The \fB-s\fR option
cannot be used with the \fB-m\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsymbol_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specify the name of the symbol to be added.
.sp
The \fB-d\fR option must be used with the \fB-s\fR option. The \fB-m\fR option
cannot be used with the \fB-s\fR option.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Batch process \fBdhtadm\fR commands. \fBdhtadm\fR reads from the specified file
or from standard input a series of \fBdhtadm\fR commands and execute them
within the same process. Processing many \fBdhtadm\fR commands using this
method is much faster than running an executable batchfile itself. Batch mode
is recommended for using \fBdhtadm\fR in scripts.
.sp
The following sub-option is optional:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display commands to standard output as they are processed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Create the \fBDHCP\fR service configuration table, \fBdhcptab\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Delete a symbol or macro definition.
.sp
The following sub-options are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImacro_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Delete the specified macro.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsymbol_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Delete the specified symbol.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Signal the DHCP daemon to reload the \fBdhcptab\fR after successful completion
of the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Modify an existing symbol or macro definition.
.sp
The following sub-options are required:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdefinition\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specify a macro or symbol definition to modify.
.sp
The definition must be enclosed in single quotation marks. For macros, use the
form \fB-d\fR \fB\&':\fIsymbol\fR=\fIvalue\fR:\fIsymbol\fR=\fIvalue\fR:'\fR.
Enclose a \fIvalue\fR that contains colons in double quotation marks. For
symbols, the definition is a series of fields that define a symbol's
characteristics. The fields are separated by commas. Use the form \fB-d\fR
\fB\&'\fIcontext\fR,\fIcode\fR,\fItype\fR,\fIgranularity\fR,\fImaximum\fR'\fR.
See \fBdhcptab\fR(4) for information about these fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This sub-option uses the \fIsymbol\fR \fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR argument. Use it to
edit a \fIsymbol\fR/\fIvalue\fR pair within a macro. To add a symbol which does
not have an associate value, enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIsymbol\fR\fB=_NULL_VALUE_\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

To delete a symbol definition from a macro, enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIsymbol\fR\fB=\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This sub-option uses the \fImacro_name\fR argument. The \fB-n\fR, \fB-d\fR, or
\fB-e\fR sub-options are legal companions for this sub-option..
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This sub-option uses the \fInew_name\fR argument and modifies the name of the
object specified by the \fB-m\fR or \fB-s\fR sub-option. It is not limited to
macros. . Use it to specify a new macro name or symbol name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This sub-option uses the \fIsymbol_name\fR argument. Use it to specify a
symbol. The \fB-d\fR sub-option is a legal companion.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI path\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Override the \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4) configuration value for \fBPATH=\fR with
\fIpath\fR. See \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4) for more details regarding \fIpath\fR.
See \fBdhcp_modules\fR(5) for information regarding data storage modules for
the \fBDHCP\fR service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Print (display) the \fBdhcptab\fR table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI data_store_resource\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Override the \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4) configuration value for \fBRESOURCE=\fR with
the \fIdata_store_resource\fR specified. See \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4) for more
details on resource type. See\fI\fR for more information about adding support
for other data stores. See \fBdhcp_modules\fR(5) for information regarding data
storage modules for the \fBDHCP\fR service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Remove the \fBdhcptab\fR table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fI uninterpreted\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Data which is ignored by \fBdhtadm\fR, but passed to currently configured
public module, to be interpreted by the data store. The private layer provides
for module-specific configuration information through the use of the
\fBRESOURCE_CONFIG\fR keyword. Uninterpreted data is stored within
\fBRESOURCE_CONFIG\fR keyword of \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4). See
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5) for information regarding data storage modules for the
DHCP service.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCreating the \fBDHCP\fR Service Configuration Table
.sp
.LP
The following command creates the \fBDHCP\fR service configuration table,
\fBdhcptab\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-C\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRAdding a Symbol Definition
.sp
.LP
The following command adds a \fBVendor\fR option symbol definition for a new
symbol called \fBMySym\fR to the \fBdhcptab\fR table in the \fBSUNWfiles\fR
resource in the \fB/var/mydhcp\fR directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-A\fR \fB-s\fR MySym
   \fB-d\fR 'Vendor=SUNW.PCW.LAN,20,IP,1,0'
   \fB-r\fR SUNWfiles \fB-p\fR /var/mydhcp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRAdding a Macro Definition
.sp
.LP
The following command adds the \fBaruba\fR macro definition to the
\fBdhcptab\fR table. Note that symbol/value pairs are bracketed with colons
(\fB:\fR).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-A\fR \fB-m\fR aruba \e
     \fB-d\fR ':Timeserv=10.0.0.10 10.0.0.11:DNSserv=10.0.0.1:'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRModifying a Macro Definition
.sp
.LP
The following command modifies the \fBLocale\fR macro definition, setting the
value of the \fBUTCOffst\fR symbol to 18000 seconds. Note that any macro
definition which includes the definition of the \fBLocale\fR macro inherits
this change.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR Locale \fB-e\fR 'UTCOffst=18000'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRDeleting a Symbol
.sp
.LP
The following command deletes the \fBTimeserv\fR symbol from the \fBaruba\fR
macro. Any macro definition which includes the definition of the \fBaruba\fR
macro inherits this change.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR aruba \fB-e\fR 'Timeserv='
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRAdding a Symbol to a Macro
.sp
.LP
The following command adds the \fBHostname\fR symbol to the \fBaruba\fR macro.
Note that the \fBHostname\fR symbol takes no value, and thus requires the
special value \fB_NULL_VALUE_\fR. Note also that any macro definition which
includes the definition of the \fBaruba\fR macro inherits this change.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR aruba \fB-e\fR 'Hostname=_NULL_VALUE_'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRRenaming a Macro
.sp
.LP
The following command renames the \fBLocale\fR macro to \fBMyLocale\fR. Note
that any \fBInclude\fR statements in macro definitions which include the
\fBLocale\fR macro also need to be changed.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-M\fR \fB-m\fR Locale \fB-n\fR MyLocale
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRDeleting a Symbol Definition
.sp
.LP
The following command deletes the \fBMySym\fR symbol definition. Note that any
macro definitions which use \fBMySym\fR needs to be modified.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-D\fR \fB-s\fR MySym
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9 \fRRemoving a dhcptab
.sp
.LP
The following command removes the \fBdhcptab\fR table in the NIS+ directory
specified.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-R\fR \fB-r\fR SUNWnisplus \fB-p\fR Test.Nis.Plus.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 10 \fRPrinting a dhcptab
.sp
.LP
The following command prints to standard output the contents of the
\fBdhcptab\fR that is located in the data store and path indicated in the
\fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR file:.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm \fB-P\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 11 \fRExecuting dhtadm in Batch Mode
.sp
.LP
The following command runs a series of \fBdhtadm\fR commands contained in a
batch file and signals the daemon to reload the \fBdhcptab\fR once the commands
have been executed: :

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# dhtadm -B addmacros -g
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Object already exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Object does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Non-critical error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Critical error.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/inet/dhcpsvc.conf\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 27n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M), \fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M), \fBin.dhcpd\fR(1M),
\fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4), \fBdhcp_network\fR(4), \fBdhcptab\fR(4), \fBhosts\fR(4),
\fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdhcp\fR(5),
\fBdhcp_modules\fR(5)\fBrbac\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.sp
.LP
Alexander, S., and R. Droms, \fIDHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions\fR,
RFC 1533, Lachman Technology, Inc., Bucknell University, October 1993.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R., \fIInteroperation Between DHCP and BOOTP\fR, RFC 1534, Bucknell
University, October 1993.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R., \fIDynamic Host Configuration Protocol\fR, RFC 1541, Bucknell
University, October 1993.
.sp
.LP
Wimer, W., \fIClarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol\fR, RFC
1542, Carnegie Mellon University, October 1993.
