'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text
.\" are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical
.\" and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLADM 1M "Dec 03, 2014"
.SH NAME
dladm \- administer data links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-link\fR [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]
\fBdladm rename-link\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIlink\fR \fInew-link\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm delete-phys\fR \fIphys-link\fR
\fBdladm show-phys\fR [\fB-m\fR | \fB-H\fR | \fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIphys-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm modify-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm add-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...]
     \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm remove-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...]
     \fIaggr-link\fR
\fBdladm show-aggr\fR [\fB-PLx\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
     [\fIaggr-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-bridge\fR [\fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm modify-bridge\fR [\fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR]
     \fIbridge-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm delete-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIbridge-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm add-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...]\fIbridge-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm remove-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-bridge\fR [\fB-flt\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...]
     [\fIbridge-name\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-vlan\fR [\fB-ft\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR \fB-v\fR \fIvid\fR [\fIvlan-link\fR]
\fBdladm delete-vlan\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIvlan-link\fR
\fBdladm show-vlan\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIvlan-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm scan-wifi\fR [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
\fBdladm connect-wifi\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIessid\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIbssid\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR,...]
     [\fB-s\fR none | wep | wpa ] [\fB-a\fR open | shared] [\fB-b\fR bss | ibss] [\fB-c\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR a | b | g] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
\fBdladm disconnect-wifi\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
\fBdladm show-wifi\fR [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIwifi-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-ether\fR [\fB-x\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIether-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm set-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIlink\fR
\fBdladm reset-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] \fIlink\fR
\fBdladm show-linkprop\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-c\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR \fIsecobj\fR
\fBdladm delete-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIsecobj\fR[,...]
\fBdladm show-secobj\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIsecobj\fR,...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIvalue\fR | auto |
     {factory \fB-n\fR \fIslot-identifier\fR]} | {random [\fB-r\fR \fIprefix\fR]}]
     [\fB-v\fR \fIvlan-id\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIvnic-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIvnic-link\fR
\fBdladm show-vnic\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fIvnic-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIetherstub\fR
\fBdladm delete-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIetherstub\fR
\fBdladm show-etherstub\fR [\fIetherstub\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm create-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-T\fR \fItype\fR [\fB-s\fR \fItsrc\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fItdst\fR]
     \fIiptun-link\fR
\fBdladm modify-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItsrc\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fItdst\fR] \fIiptun-link\fR
\fBdladm delete-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIiptun-link\fR
\fBdladm show-iptun\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIiptun-link\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdladm show-usage\fR [\fB-a\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR \fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIlink\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdladm\fR command is used to administer data-links. A data-link is
represented in the system as a \fBSTREAMS DLPI\fR (v2) interface which can be
plumbed under protocol stacks such as \fBTCP/IP\fR. Each data-link relies on
either a single network device or an aggregation of devices to send packets to
or receive packets from a network.
.sp
.LP
Each \fBdladm\fR subcommand operates on one of the following objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A datalink, identified by a name. In general, the name can use any alphanumeric
characters (or the underscore, \fB_\fR), but must start with an alphabetic
character and end with a number. A datalink name can be at most 31 characters,
and the ending number must be between 0 and 4294967294 (inclusive). The ending
number must not begin with a zero. Datalink names between 3 and 8 characters
are recommended.
.sp
Some subcommands operate only on certain types or classes of datalinks. For
those cases, the following object names are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBphys-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvlan-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A VLAN datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An aggregation datalink (or a key; see NOTES).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical Ethernet datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwifi-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A WiFi datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvnic-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A virtual network interface created on a link or an \fBetherstub\fR. It is a
pseudo device that can be treated as if it were an network interface card on a
machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An IP tunnel link.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdev\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A network device, identified by concatenation of a driver name and an instance
number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An Ethernet stub can be used instead of a physical NIC to create VNICs. VNICs
created on an \fBetherstub\fR will appear to be connected through a virtual
switch, allowing complete virtual networks to be built without physical
hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbridge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A bridge instance, identified by an administratively-chosen name. The name may
use any alphanumeric characters or the underscore, \fB_\fR, but must start and
end with an alphabetic character. A bridge name can be at most 31 characters.
The name \fBdefault\fR is reserved, as are all names starting with \fBSUNW\fR.
.sp
Note that appending a zero (\fB0\fR) to a bridge name produces a valid link
name, used for observability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsecobj\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A secure object, identified by an administratively-chosen name. The name can
use any alphanumeric characters, as well as underscore (\fB_\fR), period
(\fB\&.\fR), and hyphen (\fB-\fR). A secure object name can be at most 32
characters.
.RE

.SS "Options"
.LP
Each \fBdladm\fR subcommand has its own set of options. However, many of the
subcommands have the following as a common option:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where the operation-such as creation,
deletion, or renaming-should apply.
.RE

.SS "SUBCOMMANDS"
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-link\fR [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]]
[[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]][\fIlink\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show link configuration information (the default) or statistics, either for all
datalinks or for the specified link \fIlink\fR. By default, the system is
configured with one datalink for each known network device.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. When not
modified by the \fB-s\fR option (described below), the field name must be one
of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all
fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-link\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLASS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The class of the datalink. \fBdladm\fR distinguishes between the following
classes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBphys\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical datalink. The \fBshow-phys\fR subcommand displays more detail for
this class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaggr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation. The \fBshow-aggr\fR subcommand displays more
detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvlan\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A VLAN datalink. The \fBshow-vlan\fR subcommand displays more detail for this
class of datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvnic\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A virtual network interface. The \fBshow-vnic\fR subcommand displays more
detail for this class of datalink.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMTU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum transmission unit size for the datalink being displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The link state of the datalink. The state can be \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or
\fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the bridge to which this link is assigned, if any.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The physical datalink(s) over which the datalink is operating. This applies to
\fBaggr\fR, \fBbridge\fR, and \fBvlan\fR classes of datalinks. A VLAN is
created over a single physical datalink, a bridge has multiple attached links,
and an aggregation is comprised of one or more physical datalinks.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is used in conjunction with the \fB-s\fR option, used
to display link statistics, the field name must be one of the fields listed
below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIPACKETS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets received on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRBYTES\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of bytes received on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIERRORS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of input errors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOPACKETS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets sent on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOBYTES\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of bytes received on this link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOERRORS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of output errors.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent link configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display link statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which
statistics should be displayed. If this option is not specified, statistics
will be displayed only once.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm rename-link\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIlink\fR
\fInew-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Rename \fIlink\fR to \fInew-link\fR. This is used to give a link a meaningful
name, or to associate existing link configuration such as link properties of a
removed device with a new device. See the \fBEXAMPLES\fR section for specific
examples of how this subcommand is used.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-phys\fR \fIphys-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This command is used to delete the persistent configuration of a link
associated with physical hardware which has been removed from the system. See
the \fBEXAMPLES\fR section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-phys\fR [\fB-m\fR | \fB-H\fR | \fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
[\fIphys-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the physical device and attributes of all physical links, or of the named
physical link. Without \fB-P\fR, only physical links that are available on the
running system are displayed.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show hardware resource usage, as returned by the NIC driver. Output from
\fB-H\fR displays the following elements:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical device corresponding to a NIC driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A collection of rings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGROUPTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
RX or TX. All rings in a group are of the same group type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRINGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A hardware resource used by a data link, subject to assignment by a driver to
different groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLIENTS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC clients that are using the rings within a group.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show MAC addresses and related information. Output from \fB-m\fR
displays the following elements:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A physical device corresponding to a NIC driver.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSLOT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When a given physical device has multiple factory MAC addresses, this
indicates the slot of the corresponding MAC address which can be used as
part of a call to \fBcreate-vnic\fR.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the MAC address of the device.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays whether or not a MAC Address is actively being used.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLIENT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC clients that are using the address.
.RE
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR, \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to
display all fields. Note that if either \fB-H\fR or \fB-m\fR are specified, then
the valid options are those described in their respective sections. For each
link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMEDIA\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The media type provided by the physical datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the link. This can be \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current speed of the link, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDUPLEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For Ethernet links, the full/half duplex status of the link is displayed if the
link state is \fBup\fR. The duplex is displayed as \fBunknown\fR in all other
cases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEVICE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical device under this link.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option displays persistent configuration for all links, including those
that have been removed from the system. The output provides a \fBFLAGS\fR
column in which the \fBr\fR flag indicates that the physical device associated
with a physical link has been removed. For such links, \fBdelete-phys\fR can be
used to purge the link's configuration from the system.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR
\fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR
\fIaddress\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIether-link1\fR [\fB-l\fR \fIether-link2\fR...]
\fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Combine a set of links into a single IEEE 802.3ad link aggregation named
\fIaggr-link\fR. The use of an integer \fIkey\fR to generate a link name for
the aggregation is also supported for backward compatibility. Many of the
\fB*\fR\fB-aggr\fR subcommands below also support the use of a \fIkey\fR to
refer to a given aggregation, but use of the aggregation link name is
preferred. See the \fBNOTES\fR section for more information on keys.
.sp
\fBdladm\fR supports a number of port selection policies for an aggregation of
ports. (See the description of the \fB-P\fR option, below.) If you do not
specify a policy, \fBcreate-aggr\fR uses the default, the L4 policy, described
under the \fB-P\fR option.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Each Ethernet link (or port) in the aggregation is specified using an \fB-l\fR
option followed by the name of the link to be included in the aggregation.
Multiple links are included in the aggregation by specifying multiple \fB-l\fR
options. For backward compatibility with previous versions of Solaris, the
\fBdladm\fR command also supports the using the \fB-d\fR option (or
\fB--dev\fR) with a device name to specify links by their underlying device
name. The other \fB*\fR\fB-aggr\fR subcommands that take \fB-l\fRoptions also
accept \fB-d\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the aggregation is temporary. Temporary aggregations last until
the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR, \fB--policy\fR=\fIpolicy\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the port selection policy to use for load spreading of outbound
traffic. The policy specifies which \fIdev\fR object is used to send packets. A
policy is a list of one or more layers specifiers separated by commas. A layer
specifier is one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select outbound device according to source and destination \fBMAC\fR addresses
of the packet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL3\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select outbound device according to source and destination \fBIP\fR addresses
of the packet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select outbound device according to the upper layer protocol information
contained in the packet. For \fBTCP\fR and \fBUDP\fR, this includes source and
destination ports. For IPsec, this includes the \fBSPI\fR (Security Parameters
Index).
.RE

For example, to use upper layer protocol information, the following policy can
be used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P L4
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Note that policy L4 is the default.
.sp
To use the source and destination \fBMAC\fR addresses as well as the source and
destination \fBIP\fR addresses, the following policy can be used:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-P L2,L3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR, \fB--lacp-mode\fR=\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether \fBLACP\fR should be used and, if used, the mode in which it
should operate. Supported values are \fBoff\fR, \fBactive\fR or \fBpassive\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--lacp-timer\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the \fBLACP\fR timer value. The supported values are \fBshort\fR or
\fBlong\fRjjj.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR, \fB--unicast\fR=\fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed unicast hardware address to be used for the aggregation. If
this option is not specified, then an address is automatically chosen from the
set of addresses of the component devices.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm modify-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-P\fR
\fIpolicy\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-u\fR
\fIaddress\fR] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the parameters of the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the modification is temporary. Temporary aggregations last until
the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIpolicy\fR, \fB--policy\fR=\fIpolicy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the port selection policy to use for load spreading of outbound
traffic. See \fBdladm create-aggr\fR for a description of valid policy values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR \fImode\fR, \fB--lacp-mode\fR=\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether \fBLACP\fR should be used and, if used, the mode in which it
should operate. Supported values are \fBoff\fR, \fBactive\fR, or \fBpassive\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--lacp-timer\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the \fBLACP\fR timer value. The supported values are \fBshort\fR or
\fBlong\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIaddress\fR, \fB--unicast\fR=\fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed unicast hardware address to be used for the aggregation. If
this option is not specified, then an address is automatically chosen from the
set of addresses of the component devices.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm add-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR
\fIether-link1\fR [\fB--link\fR=\fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds links to the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an Ethernet link to add to the aggregation. Multiple links can be
added by supplying multiple \fB-l\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the additions are temporary. Temporary additions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm remove-aggr\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR
\fIether-link1\fR [\fB--l\fR=\fIether-link2\fR...] \fIaggr-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes links from the specified aggregation.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an Ethernet link to remove from the aggregation. Multiple links can
be added by supplying multiple \fB-l\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the removals are temporary. Temporary removal last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-aggr\fR [\fB-PLx\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]]
[[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIaggr-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show aggregation configuration (the default), \fBLACP\fR information, or
statistics, either for all aggregations or for the specified aggregation.
.sp
By default (with no options), the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the aggregation link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLICY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LACP policy of the aggregation. See the \fBcreate-aggr\fR \fB-P\fR option
for a description of the possible values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBADDRPOLICY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBauto\fR, if the aggregation is configured to automatically configure
its unicast MAC address (the default if the \fB-u\fR option was not used to
create or modify the aggregation), or \fBfixed\fR, if \fB-u\fR was used to set
a fixed MAC address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLACPACTIVITY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LACP mode of the aggregation. Possible values are \fBoff\fR, \fBactive\fR,
or \fBpassive\fR, as set by the \fB-l\fR option to \fBcreate-aggr\fR or
\fBmodify-aggr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLACPTIMER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The LACP timer value of the aggregation as set by the \fB-T\fR option of
\fBcreate-aggr\fR or \fBmodify-aggr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of state flags associated with the aggregation. The only possible flag is
\fBf\fR, which is displayed if the administrator forced the creation the
aggregation using the \fB-f\fR option to \fBcreate-aggr\fR. Other flags might
be defined in the future.
.RE

The \fBshow-aggr\fR command accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR, \fB--lacp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays detailed \fBLACP\fR information for the aggregation link and each
underlying port. Most of the state information displayed by this option is
defined by IEEE 802.3. With this option, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the aggregation link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of one of the underlying aggregation ports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAGGREGATABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Whether the port can be added to the aggregation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSYNC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, the system considers the port to be synchronized and part of the
aggregation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOLL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, collection of incoming frames is enabled on the associated port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDIST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, distribution of outgoing frames is enabled on the associated
port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEFAULTED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, the port is using defaulted partner information (that is, has not
received LACP data from the LACP partner).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEXPIRED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fByes\fR, the receive state of the port is in the \fBEXPIRED\fR state.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR, \fB--extended\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display additional aggregation information including detailed information on
each underlying port. With \fB-x\fR, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the aggregation link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of one of the underlying aggregation ports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The speed of the link or port in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDUPLEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The full/half duplex status of the link or port is displayed if the link state
is \fBup\fR. The duplex status is displayed as \fBunknown\fR in all other
cases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The link state. This can be \fBup\fR, \fBdown\fR, or \fBunknown\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MAC address of the link or port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPORTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether the individual aggregation port is in the \fBstandby\fR
or \fBattached\fR state.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed above, or the special value \fBall\fR, to
display all fields. The fields applicable to the \fB-o\fR option are limited to
those listed under each output mode. For example, if using \fB-L\fR, only the
fields listed under \fB-L\fR, above, can be used with \fB-o\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent aggregation configuration rather than the state of the
running system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays aggregation statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which
statistics should be displayed. If this option is not specified, statistics
will be displayed only once.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-bridge\fR [ \fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR
\fIroot-dir\fR] [ \fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [ \fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [ \fB-h\fR
\fIhello-time\fR] [ \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [ \fB-f\fR
\fIforce-protocol\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an 802.1D bridge instance and optionally assign one or more network
links to the new bridge. By default, no bridge instances are present on the
system.
.sp
In order to bridge between links, you must create at least one bridge instance.
Each bridge instance is separate, and there is no forwarding connection between
bridges.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR, \fB--protect\fR=\fIprotect\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a protection method. The defined protection methods are \fBstp\fR for
the Spanning Tree Protocol and trill for \fBTRILL\fR, which is used on
RBridges. The default value is \fBstp\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR, \fB--priority\fR=\fIpriority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the Bridge Priority. This sets the IEEE STP priority value for
determining the root bridge node in the network. The default value is
\fB32768\fR. Valid values are \fB0\fR (highest priority) to \fB61440\fR (lowest
priority), in increments of 4096.
.sp
If a value not evenly divisible by 4096 is used, the system silently rounds
downward to the next lower value that is divisible by 4096.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR, \fB--max-age\fR=\fImax-age\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum age for configuration information in seconds. This sets
the STP Bridge Max Age parameter. This value is used for all nodes in the
network if this node is the root bridge. Bridge link information older than
this time is discarded. It defaults to 20 seconds. Valid values are from 6 to
40 seconds. See the \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR parameter for additional
constraints.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fIhello-time\fR, \fB--hello-time\fR=\fIhello-time\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the STP Bridge Hello Time parameter. When this node is the root node,
it sends Configuration BPDUs at this interval throughout the network. The
default value is 2 seconds. Valid values are from 1 to 10 seconds. See the
\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR parameter for additional constraints.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR, \fB--forward-delay\fR=\fIforward-delay\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the STP Bridge Forward Delay parameter. When this node is the root
node, then all bridges in the network use this timer to sequence the link
states when a port is enabled. The default value is 15 seconds. Valid values
are from 4 to 30 seconds.
.sp
Bridges must obey the following two constraints:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
2 * (\fIforward-delay\fR - 1.0) >= \fImax-age\fR

\fImax-age\fR >= 2 * (\fIhello-time\fR + 1.0)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Any parameter setting that would violate those constraints is treated as an
error and causes the command to fail with a diagnostic message. The message
provides valid alternatives to the supplied values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIforce-protocol\fR,
\fB--force-protocol\fR=\fIforce-protocol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the MSTP forced maximum supported protocol. The default value is 3.
Valid values are non-negative integers. The current implementation does not
support RSTP or MSTP, so this currently has no effect. However, to prevent MSTP
from being used in the future, the parameter may be set to \fB0\fR for STP only
or \fB2\fR for STP and RSTP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies one or more links to add to the newly-created bridge. This is similar
to creating the bridge and then adding one or more links, as with the
\fBadd-bridge\fR subcommand. However, if any of the links cannot be added, the
entire command fails, and the new bridge itself is not created. To add multiple
links on the same command line, repeat this option for each link. You are
permitted to create bridges without links. For more information about link
assignments, see the \fBadd-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

Bridge creation and link assignment require the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR
privilege. Bridge creation might fail if the optional bridging feature is not
installed on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm modify-bridge\fR [ \fB-P\fR \fIprotect\fR] [\fB-R\fR
\fIroot-dir\fR] [ \fB-p\fR \fIpriority\fR] [ \fB-m\fR \fImax-age\fR] [ \fB-h\fR
\fIhello-time\fR] [ \fB-d\fR \fIforward-delay\fR] [ \fB-f\fR
\fIforce-protocol\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the operational parameters of an existing bridge. The options are the
same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand, except that the \fB-l\fR option
is not permitted. To add links to an existing bridge, use the \fBadd-bridge\fR
subcommand.
.sp
Bridge parameter modification requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete a bridge instance. The bridge being deleted must not have any attached
links. Use the \fBremove-bridge\fR subcommand to deactivate links before
deleting a bridge.
.sp
Bridge deletion requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.sp
The \fB-R\fR (\fB--root-dir\fR) option is the same as for the
\fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm add-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR
[\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add one or more links to an existing bridge. If multiple links are specified,
and adding any one of them results in an error, the command fails and no
changes are made to the system.
.sp
Link addition to a bridge requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.sp
A link may be a member of at most one bridge. An error occurs when you attempt
to add a link that already belongs to another bridge. To move a link from one
bridge instance to another, remove it from the current bridge before adding it
to a new one.
.sp
The links assigned to a bridge must not also be VLANs, VNICs, or tunnels. Only
physical Ethernet datalinks, aggregation datalinks, wireless links, and
Ethernet stubs are permitted to be assigned to a bridge.
.sp
Links assigned to a bridge must all have the same MTU. This is checked when the
link is assigned. The link is added to the bridge in a deactivated form if it
is not the first link on the bridge and it has a differing MTU.
.sp
Note that systems using bridging should not set the \fBeeprom\fR(1M)
\fBlocal-mac-address?\fR variable to false.
.sp
The options are the same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm remove-bridge\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR
[\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR...] \fIbridge-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove one or more links from a bridge instance. If multiple links are
specified, and removing any one of them would result in an error, the command
fails and none are removed.
.sp
Link removal from a bridge requires the \fBPRIV_SYS_DL_CONFIG\fR privilege.
.sp
The options are the same as for the \fBcreate-bridge\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-bridge\fR [\fB-flt\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]]
[[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...] [\fIbridge-name\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the running status and configuration of bridges, their attached links,
learned forwarding entries, and \fBTRILL\fR nickname databases. When showing
overall bridge status and configuration, the bridge name can be omitted to show
all bridges. The other forms require a specified bridge.
.sp
The show-bridge subcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which
statistics should be displayed. If this option is not specified, statistics
will be displayed only once.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display statistics for the specified bridges or for a given bridge's attached
links. This option cannot be used with the \fB-f\fR and \fB-t\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parsable format. See "Parsable Output Format,"
below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
names are described below. The special value all displays all fields. Each set
of fields has its own default set to display when \fB-o\fR is not specified.
.RE

By default, the \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand shows bridge configuration. The
following fields can be shown:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The Bridge Unique Identifier value (MAC address).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPRIORITY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured priority value; set by \fB-p\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and
\fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBMAXAGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured bridge maximum age; set by \fB-m\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and
\fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBHELLOTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured bridge hello time; set by \fB-h\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and
\fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBFWDDELAY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured forwarding delay; set by \fB-d\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR and
\fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFORCEPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configured forced maximum protocol; set by \fB-f\fR with \fBcreate-bridge\fR
and \fBmodify-bridge\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Time, in seconds, since last topology change.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCCOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Count of the number of topology changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCHANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates that a topology change was detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESROOT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge Identifier of the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBROOTCOST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cost of the path to the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBROOTPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Port number used to reach the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAXAGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maximum age value from the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHELLOTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hello time value from the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFWDDELAY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forward delay value from the root node.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHOLDTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Minimum BPDU interval.
.RE

By default, when the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, only the \fBBRIDGE\fR,
\fBADDRESS\fR, \fBPRIORITY\fR, and \fBDESROOT\fR fields are shown.
.sp
When the \fB-s\fR option is specified, the \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand shows
bridge statistics. The following fields can be shown:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDROPS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets dropped due to resource problems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFORWARDS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets forwarded from one link to another.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMBCAST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of multicast and broadcast packets handled by the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRECV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets received on all attached links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSENT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets sent on all attached links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets handled that have an unknown destination. Such packets are
sent to all links.
.RE

By default, when the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, only the \fBBRIDGE\fR,
\fBDROPS\fR, and \fBFORWARDS\fR fields are shown.
.sp
The \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand also accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR, \fB--link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays link-related status and statistics information for all links attached
to a single bridge instance. By using this option and without the \fB-s\fR
option, the following fields can be displayed for each link:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The link name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINDEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Port (link) index number on the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
State of the link. The state can be \fBdisabled\fR, \fBdiscarding\fR,
\fBlearning\fR, \fBforwarding\fR, \fBnon-stp\fR, or \fBbad-mtu\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUPTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of seconds since the last reset or initialization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOPERCOST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Actual cost in use (1-65535).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOPERP2P\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether point-to-point (\fBP2P\fR) mode been detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOPEREDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether edge mode has been detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESROOT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The Root Bridge Identifier that has been seen on this port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESCOST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Path cost to the network root node through the designated port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESBRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bridge Identifier for this port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ID and priority of the port used to transmit configuration messages for
this port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCACK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This indicates whether Topology Change Acknowledge has been seen.
.RE

When the \fB-l\fR option is specified without the \fB-o\fR option, only the
\fBLINK\fR, \fBSTATE\fR, \fBUPTIME\fR, and \fBDESROOT\fR fields are shown.
.sp
When the \fB-l\fR option is specified, the \fB-s\fR option can be used to
display the following fields for each link:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Link name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCFGBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of configuration BPDUs received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTCNBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of topology change BPDUs received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSTPBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of Rapid Spanning Tree BPDUs received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTXBPDU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of BPDUs transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDROPS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets dropped due to resource problems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRECV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets received by the bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBXMIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of packets sent by the bridge.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, only the \fBLINK\fR, \fBDROPS\fR,
\fBRECV\fR, and \fBXMIT\fR fields are shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--forwarding\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays forwarding entries for a single bridge instance. With this option, the
following fields can be shown for each forwarding entry:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Destination MAC address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Age of entry in seconds and milliseconds. Omitted for local entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBL\fR (local) flag is shown if the MAC address belongs to an attached
link or to a VNIC on one of the attached links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOUTPUT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For local entries, this is the name of the attached link that has the MAC
address. Otherwise, for bridges that use Spanning Tree Protocol, this is the
output interface name. For RBridges, this is the output \fBTRILL\fR nickname.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, the \fBDEST\fR, \fBAGE\fR,
\fBFLAGS\fR, and \fBOUTPUT\fR fields are shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--trill\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays \fBTRILL\fR nickname entries for a single bridge instance. With this
option, the following fields can be shown for each \fBTRILL\fR nickname entry:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNICK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBTRILL\fR nickname for this RBridge, which is a number from 1 to 65535.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBL\fR flag is shown if the nickname identifies the local system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Link name for output when sending messages to this RBridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNEXTHOP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address of the next hop RBridge that is used to reach the RBridge with this
nickname.
.RE

When the \fB-o\fR option is not specified, the \fBNICK\fR, \fBFLAGS\fR,
\fBLINK\fR, and \fBNEXTHOP\fR fields are shown.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-vlan\fR [\fB-ft\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR
\fIether-link\fR \fB-v\fR \fIvid\fR [\fIvlan-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a tagged VLAN link with an ID of \fIvid\fR over Ethernet link
\fIether-link\fR. The name of the VLAN link can be specified as
\fIvlan\fR-\fIlink\fR. If the name is not specified, a name will be
automatically generated (assuming that \fIether-link\fR is \fIname\fR\fIPPA\fR)
as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<\fIname\fR><1000 * \fIvlan-tag\fR + \fIPPA\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

For example, if \fIether-link\fR is \fBbge1\fR and \fIvid\fR is 2, the name
generated is \fBbge2001\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the creation of the VLAN link. Some devices do not allow frame sizes
large enough to include a VLAN header. When creating a VLAN link over such a
device, the \fB-f\fR option is needed, and the MTU of the IP interfaces on the
resulting VLAN must be set to 1496 instead of 1500.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIether-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies Ethernet link over which VLAN is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the VLAN link is temporary. Temporary VLAN links last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-vlan\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIvlan-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the VLAN link specified.
.sp
The \fBdelete-vlan\fRsubcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-vlan\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
[\fIvlan-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display VLAN configuration for all VLAN links or for the specified VLAN link.
.sp
The \fBshow-vlan\fRsubcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to
display all fields. For each VLAN link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the VLAN link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ID associated with the VLAN.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical link over which this VLAN is configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of flags associated with the VLAN link. Possible flags are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The VLAN was created using the \fB-f\fR option to \fBcreate-vlan\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The VLAN was implicitly created when the DLPI link was opened. These VLAN links
are automatically deleted on last close of the DLPI link (for example, when the
IP interface associated with the VLAN link is unplumbed).
.RE

Additional flags might be defined in the future.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent VLAN configuration rather than the state of the running
system.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm scan-wifi\fR [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
[\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scans for \fBWiFi\fR networks, either on all \fBWiFi\fR links, or just on the
specified \fIwifi-link\fR.
.sp
By default, currently all fields but \fBBSSTYPE\fR are displayed.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to
display all fields. For each \fBWiFi\fR network found, the following fields can
be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link the \fBWiFi\fR network is on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBESSID\fR (name) of the \fBWiFi\fR network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBSSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either the hardware address of the \fBWiFi\fR network's Access Point (for
\fBBSS\fR networks), or the \fBWiFi\fR network's randomly generated unique
token (for \fBIBSS\fR networks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSEC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBnone\fR for a \fBWiFi\fR network that uses no security, \fBwep\fR for
a \fBWiFi\fR network that requires WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy), or \fBwpa\fR
for a WiFi network that requires WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMODE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The supported connection modes: one or more of \fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, or \fBg\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTRENGTH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The strength of the signal: one of \fBexcellent\fR, \fBvery good\fR,
\fBgood\fR, \fBweak\fR, or \fBvery weak\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum speed of the \fBWiFi\fR network, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBSSTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBbss\fR for \fBBSS\fR (infrastructure) networks, or \fBibss\fR for
\fBIBSS\fR (ad-hoc) networks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm connect-wifi\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIessid\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIbssid\fR]
[\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR,...] [\fB-s\fR \fBnone\fR | \fBwep\fR | \fBwpa\fR]
[\fB-a\fR \fBopen\fR|\fBshared\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fBbss\fR|\fBibss\fR] [\fB-c\fR]
[\fB-m\fR \fBa\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBg\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connects to a \fBWiFi\fR network. This consists of four steps: \fIdiscovery\fR,
\fIfiltration\fR, \fIprioritization\fR, and \fIassociation\fR. However, to
enable connections to non-broadcast \fBWiFi\fR networks and to improve
performance, if a \fBBSSID\fR or \fBESSID\fR is specified using the \fB-e\fR or
\fB-i\fR options, then the first three steps are skipped and \fBconnect-wifi\fR
immediately attempts to associate with a \fBBSSID\fR or \fBESSID\fR that
matches the rest of the provided parameters. If this association fails, but
there is a possibility that other networks matching the specified criteria
exist, then the traditional discovery process begins as specified below.
.sp
The discovery step finds all available \fBWiFi\fR networks on the specified
WiFi link, which must not yet be connected. For administrative convenience, if
there is only one \fBWiFi\fR link on the system, \fIwifi-link\fR can be
omitted.
.sp
Once discovery is complete, the list of networks is filtered according to the
value of the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIessid,\fR \fB--essid\fR=\fIessid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks that do not have the same \fIessid\fR are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fBbss\fR|\fBibss\fR, \fB--bsstype\fR=\fBbss\fR|\fBibss\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks that do not have the same \fBbsstype\fR are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fBa\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBg\fR, \fB--mode\fR=\fBa\fR|\fBb\fR|\fBg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks not appropriate for the specified 802.11 mode are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIkey,...\fR, \fB--key\fR=\fIkey, ...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the specified \fBsecobj\fR named by the key to connect to the network.
Networks not appropriate for the specified keys are filtered out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fBnone\fR|\fBwep\fR|\fBwpa\fR,
\fB--sec\fR=\fBnone\fR|\fBwep\fR|\fBwpa\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Networks not appropriate for the specified security mode are filtered out.
.RE

Next, the remaining networks are prioritized, first by signal strength, and
then by maximum speed. Finally, an attempt is made to associate with each
network in the list, in order, until one succeeds or no networks remain.
.sp
In addition to the options described above, the following options also control
the behavior of \fBconnect-wifi\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fBopen\fR|\fBshared\fR, \fB--auth\fR=\fBopen\fR|\fBshared\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Connect using the specified authentication mode. By default, \fBopen\fR and
\fBshared\fR are tried in order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR, \fB--create-ibss\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with \fB-b ibss\fR to create a new ad-hoc network if one matching the
specified \fBESSID\fR cannot be found. If no \fBESSID\fR is specified, then
\fB-c -b ibss\fR always triggers the creation of a new ad-hoc network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--timeout\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of seconds to wait for association to succeed. If
\fItime\fR is \fBforever\fR, then the associate will wait indefinitely. The
current default is ten seconds, but this might change in the future. Timeouts
shorter than the default might not succeed reliably.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIkey,...\fR, \fB--key\fR=\fIkey,...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In addition to the filtering previously described, the specified keys will be
used to secure the association. The security mode to use will be based on the
key class; if a security mode was explicitly specified, it must be compatible
with the key class. All keys must be of the same class.
.sp
For security modes that support multiple key slots, the slot to place the key
will be specified by a colon followed by an index. Therefore, \fB-k mykey:3\fR
places \fBmykey\fR in slot 3. By default, slot 1 is assumed. For security modes
that support multiple keys, a comma-separated list can be specified, with the
first key being the active key.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm disconnect-wifi\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disconnect from one or more \fBWiFi\fR networks. If \fIwifi-link\fR specifies a
connected \fBWiFi\fR link, then it is disconnected. For administrative
convenience, if only one \fBWiFi\fR link is connected, \fIwifi-link\fR can be
omitted.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR, \fB--all-links\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disconnects from all connected links. This is primarily intended for use by
scripts.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-wifi\fR [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...]
[\fIwifi-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shows \fBWiFi\fR configuration information either for all \fBWiFi\fR links or
for the specified link \fIwifi-link\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield,...\fR, \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to
display all fields. For each \fBWiFi\fR link, the following fields can be
displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link being displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATUS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBconnected\fR if the link is connected, or \fBdisconnected\fR if it is
not connected. If the link is disconnected, all remaining fields have the value
\fB--\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBESSID\fR (name) of the connected \fBWiFi\fR network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBSSID\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either the hardware address of the \fBWiFi\fR network's Access Point (for
\fBBSS\fR networks), or the \fBWiFi\fR network's randomly generated unique
token (for \fBIBSS\fR networks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSEC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBnone\fR for a \fBWiFi\fR network that uses no security, \fBwep\fR for
a \fBWiFi\fR network that requires WEP, or \fBwpa\fR for a WiFi network that
requires WPA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMODE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The supported connection modes: one or more of \fBa\fR, \fBb\fR, or \fBg\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTRENGTH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection strength: one of \fBexcellent\fR, \fBvery good\fR, \fBgood\fR,
\fBweak\fR, or \fBvery weak\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The connection speed, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUTH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBopen\fR or \fBshared\fR (see \fBconnect-wifi\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBSSTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fBbss\fR for \fBBSS\fR (infrastructure) networks, or \fBibss\fR for
\fBIBSS\fR (ad-hoc) networks.
.RE

By default, currently all fields but \fBAUTH\fR, \fBBSSID\fR, \fBBSSTYPE\fR are
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-ether\fR [\fB-x\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,...]
[\fIether-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shows state information either for all physical Ethernet links or for a
specified physical Ethernet link.
.sp
The \fBshow-ether\fR subcommand accepts the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR,..., \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to
display all fields. For each link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link being displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Parameter type, where \fBcurrent\fR indicates the negotiated state of the link,
\fBcapable\fR indicates capabilities supported by the device, \fBadv\fR
indicates the advertised capabilities, and \fBpeeradv\fR indicates the
capabilities advertised by the link-partner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUTO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A \fByes\fR/\fBno\fR value indicating whether auto-negotiation is advertised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSPEED-DUPLEX\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Combinations of speed and duplex values available. The units of speed are
encoded with a trailing suffix of \fBG\fR (Gigabits/s) or \fBM\fR (Mb/s).
Duplex values are encoded as \fBf\fR (full-duplex) or \fBh\fR (half-duplex).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flow control information. Can be \fBno\fR, indicating no flow control is
available; \fBtx\fR, indicating that the end-point can transmit pause frames,
but ignores any received pause frames; \fBrx\fR, indicating that the end-point
receives and acts upon received pause frames; or \fBbi\fR, indicating
bi-directional flow-control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREM_FAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Fault detection information. Valid values are \fBnone\fR or \fBfault\fR.
.RE

By default, all fields except \fBREM_FAULT\fR are displayed for the "current"
\fBPTYPE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR, \fB--extended\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Extended output is displayed for \fBPTYPE\fR values of \fBcurrent\fR,
\fBcapable\fR, \fBadv\fR and \fBpeeradv\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm set-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR
\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the values of one or more properties on the link specified. The list of
properties and their possible values depend on the link type, the network
device driver, and networking hardware. These properties can be retrieved using
\fBshow-linkprop\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the changes are temporary. Temporary changes last until the next
reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR
\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to set to the specified values.
.RE

Note that when the persistent value is set, the temporary value changes to the
same value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm reset-linkprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR
\fIprop\fR,...] \fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resets one or more properties to their values on the link specified. Properties
are reset to the values they had at startup. If no properties are specified,
all properties are reset. See \fBshow-linkprop\fR for a description of
properties.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the resets are temporary. Values are reset to default values.
Temporary resets last until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop, ...\fR, \fB--prop\fR=\fIprop, ...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to reset.
.RE

Note that when the persistent value is reset, the temporary value changes to
the same value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-linkprop\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-c\fR] \fB-o\fR
\fIfield\fR[,...]][\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fIlink\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the current or persistent values of one or more properties, either for all
datalinks or for the specified link. By default, current values are shown. If
no properties are specified, all available link properties are displayed. For
each property, the following fields are displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to
display all fields. For each link, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the datalink.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROPERTY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The read/write permissions of the property. The value shown is one of \fBro\fR
or \fBrw\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVALUE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current (or persistent) property value. If the value is not set, it is
shown as \fB--\fR. If it is unknown, the value is shown as \fB?\fR. Persistent
values that are not set or have been reset will be shown as \fB--\fR and will
use the system \fBDEFAULT\fR value (if any).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default value of the property. If the property has no default value,
\fB--\fR is shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSSIBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of the values the property can have. If the values span
a numeric range, \fImin\fR - \fImax\fR might be shown as shorthand. If the
possible values are unknown or unbounded, \fB--\fR is shown.
.RE

The list of properties depends on the link type and network device driver, and
the available values for a given property further depends on the underlying
network hardware and its state. General link properties are documented in the
\fBLINK PROPERTIES\fR section. However, link properties that begin with
"\fB_\fR" (underbar) are specific to a given link or its underlying network
device and subject to change or removal. See the appropriate network device
driver man page for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with this option. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent link property information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop, ...\fR, \fB--prop\fR=\fIprop, ...\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to show. See the sections on link
properties following subcommand descriptions.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-f\fR
\fIfile\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR \fIsecobj\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a secure object named \fIsecobj\fR in the specified \fIclass\fR to be
later used as a WEP or WPA key in connecting to an encrypted network. The value
of the secure object can either be provided interactively or read from a file.
The sequence of interactive prompts and the file format depends on the class of
the secure object.
.sp
Currently, the classes \fBwep\fR and \fBwpa\fR are supported. The \fBWEP\fR
(Wired Equivalent Privacy) key can be either 5 or 13 bytes long. It can be
provided either as an \fBASCII\fR or hexadecimal string -- thus, \fB12345\fR
and \fB0x3132333435\fR are equivalent 5-byte keys (the \fB0x\fR prefix can be
omitted). A file containing a \fBWEP\fR key must consist of a single line using
either \fBWEP\fR key format. The WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access) key must be
provided as an ASCII string with a length between 8 and 63 bytes.
.sp
This subcommand is only usable by users or roles that belong to the "Network
Link Security" \fBRBAC\fR profile.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIclass\fR, \fB--class\fR=\fIclass\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIclass\fR can be \fBwep\fR or \fBwpa\fR. See preceding discussion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the creation is temporary. Temporary creation last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR, \fB--file\fR=\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file that should be used to obtain the secure object's value. The
format of this file depends on the secure object class. See the \fBEXAMPLES\fR
section for an example of using this option to set a \fBWEP\fR key.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-secobj\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIsecobj\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete one or more specified secure objects. This subcommand is only usable by
users or roles that belong to the "Network Link Security" \fBRBAC\fR profile.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletions are temporary. Temporary deletions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-secobj\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
[\fIsecobj\fR,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show current or persistent secure object information. If one or more secure
objects are specified, then information for each is displayed. Otherwise, all
current or persistent secure objects are displayed.
.sp
By default, current secure objects are displayed, which are all secure objects
that have either been persistently created and not temporarily deleted, or
temporarily created.
.sp
For security reasons, it is not possible to show the value of a secure object.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...] , \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below. For displayed secure object, the
following fields can be shown:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOBJECT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the secure object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLASS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The class of the secure object.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent secure object information
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR [\fB-R\fR
\fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIvalue\fR | auto | {factory [\fB-n\fR
\fIslot-identifier\fR]} | {random [\fB-r\fR \fIprefix\fR]}] [\fB-v\fR
\fIvlan-id\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIvnic-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create a VNIC with name \fIvnic-link\fR over the specified link.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the VNIC is temporary. Temporary VNICs last until the next
reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIlink\fR can be a physical link or an \fBetherstub\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIvalue\fR | \fIkeyword\fR, \fB--mac-address\fR=\fIvalue\fR |
\fIkeyword\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the VNIC's MAC address based on the specified value or keyword. If
\fIvalue\fR is not a keyword, it is interpreted as a unicast MAC address, which
must be valid for the underlying NIC. The following special keywords can be
used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBfactory [\fB-n\fR \fIslot-identifier\fR],\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBfactory [\fB--slot\fR=\fIslot-identifier\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assign a factory MAC address to the VNIC. When a factory MAC address is
requested, \fB-m\fR can be combined with the \fB-n\fR option to specify a MAC
address slot to be used. If \fB-n\fR is not specified, the system will choose
the next available factory MAC address. The \fB-m\fR option of the
\fBshow-phys\fR subcommand can be used to display the list of factory MAC
addresses, their slot identifiers, and their availability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBrandom [\fB-r\fR \fIprefix\fR],\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fBrandom [\fB--mac-prefix\fR=\fIprefix\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assign a random MAC address to the VNIC. A default prefix consisting of a valid
IEEE OUI with the local bit set will be used. That prefix can be overridden
with the \fB-r\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBauto\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Try and use a factory MAC address first. If none is available, assign a random
MAC address. \fBauto\fR is the default action if the \fB-m\fR option is not
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fIvlan-id\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable VLAN tagging for this VNIC. The VLAN tag will have id \fIvlan-id\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR,..., \fB--prop\fR
\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR,...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to set to the specified values.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-vnic\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIvnic-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Deletes the specified VNIC.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-vnic\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]]
[\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fIvnic-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show VNIC configuration information (the default) or statistics, for all VNICs,
all VNICs on a link, or only the specified \fIvnic-link\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...] , \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below. The field name must be one of the
fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR to display all fields. By
default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-vnic\fR displays all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the VNIC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the physical link over which this VNIC is configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSPEED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum speed of the VNIC, in megabits per second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMACADDRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address of the VNIC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMACADDRTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC address type of the VNIC. \fBdladm\fR distinguishes among the following MAC
address types:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrandom\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A random address assigned to the VNIC.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfactory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A factory MAC address used by the VNIC.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The \fB-o\fR option is
required with \fB-p\fR. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent VNIC configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays VNIC statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which
statistics should be displayed. If this option is not specified, statistics
will be displayed only once.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information for all VNICs on the named link.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an etherstub with the specified name.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the etherstub is temporary. Temporary etherstubs do not persist
across reboots.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

VNICs can be created on top of etherstubs instead of physical NICs. As with
physical NICs, such a creation causes the stack to implicitly create a virtual
switch between the VNICs created on top of the same etherstub.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-etherstub\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIetherstub\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the specified etherstub.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-etherstub\fR [\fIetherstub\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show all configured etherstubs by default, or the specified etherstub if
\fIetherstub\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm create-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-T\fR
\fItype\fR [\fB-s\fR \fItsrc\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fItdst\fR] \fIiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an IP tunnel link named \fIiptun-link\fR. Such links can additionally be
protected with IPsec using \fBipsecconf\fR(1M).
.sp
An IP tunnel is conceptually comprised of two parts: a virtual link between two
or more IP nodes, and an IP interface above this link that allows the system to
transmit and receive IP packets encapsulated by the underlying link. This
subcommand creates a virtual link. The \fBifconfig\fR(1M) command is used to
configure IP interfaces above the link.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the IP tunnel link is temporary. Temporary tunnels last until
the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItype\fR, \fB--tunnel-type\fR=\fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the type of tunnel to be created. The type must be one of the
following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBipv4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A point-to-point, IP-over-IP tunnel between two IPv4 nodes. This type of tunnel
requires IPv4 source and destination addresses to function. IPv4 and IPv6
interfaces can be plumbed above such a tunnel to create IPv4-over-IPv4 and
IPv6-over-IPv4 tunneling configurations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBipv6\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A point-to-point, IP-over-IP tunnel between two IPv6 nodes as defined in IETF
RFC 2473. This type of tunnel requires IPv6 source and destination addresses to
function. IPv4 and IPv6 interfaces can be plumbed above such a tunnel to create
IPv4-over-IPv6 and IPv6-over-IPv6 tunneling configurations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6to4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A 6to4, point-to-multipoint tunnel as defined in IETF RFC 3056. This type of
tunnel requires an IPv4 source address to function. An IPv6 interface is
plumbed on such a tunnel link to configure a 6to4 router.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fItsrc\fR, \fB--tunnel-src\fR=\fItsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Literal IP address or hostname corresponding to the tunnel source. If a
hostname is specified, it will be resolved to IP addresses, and one of those IP
addresses will be used as the tunnel source. Because IP tunnels are created
before naming services have been brought online during the boot process, it is
important that any hostname used be included in \fB/etc/hosts\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fItdst\fR, \fB--tunnel-dst\fR=\fItdst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Literal IP address or hostname corresponding to the tunnel destination.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm modify-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-s\fR
\fItsrc\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fItdst\fR] \fIiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Modify the parameters of the specified IP tunnel.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the modification is temporary. Temporary modifications last
until the next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fItsrc\fR, \fB--tunnel-src\fR=\fItsrc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a new tunnel source address. See \fBcreate-iptun\fR for a
description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fItdst\fR, \fB--tunnel-dst\fR=\fItdst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a new tunnel destination address. See \fBcreate-iptun\fR for a
description.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm delete-iptun\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]
\fIiptun-link\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the specified IP tunnel link.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the deletion is temporary. Temporary deletions last until the
next reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
See "Options," above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-iptun\fR [\fB-P\fR] [[\fB-p\fR] \fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
[\fIiptun-link\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show IP tunnel link configuration for a single IP tunnel or all IP tunnels.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the persistent IP tunnel configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parseable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parseable format. The -o option is required with
-p. See "Parseable Output Format", below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...], \fB--output\fR=\fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or the special value \fBall\fR, to
display all fields. By default (without \fB-o\fR), \fBshow-iptun\fR displays
all fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the IP tunnel link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Type of tunnel as specified by the \fB-T\fR option of \fBcreate-iptun\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A set of flags associated with the IP tunnel link. Possible flags are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The IP tunnel link is protected by IPsec policy. To display the IPsec policy
associated with the tunnel link, enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBipsecconf -ln -i \fItunnel-link\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

See \fBipsecconf\fR(1M) for more details on how to configure IPsec policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The IP tunnel link was implicitly created with \fBifconfig\fR(1M), and will be
automatically deleted when it is no longer referenced (that is, when the last
IP interface over the tunnel is unplumbed). See \fBifconfig\fR(1M) for details
on implicit tunnel creation.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The tunnel source address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESTINATION\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The tunnel destination address.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdladm show-usage\fR [\fB-a\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fB-p\fR
\fIplotfile\fR \fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-e\fR
\fItime\fR] [\fIlink\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the historical network usage from a stored extended accounting file.
Configuration and enabling of network accounting through \fBacctadm\fR(1M) is
required. The default output will be the summary of network usage for the
entire period of time in which extended accounting was enabled.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display all historical network usage for the specified period of time during
which extended accounting is enabled. This includes the usage information for
the links that have already been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR, \fB--file\fR=\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read extended accounting records of network usage from \fIfilename\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR, \fB--format\fR=\fIformat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the format of \fIplotfile\fR that is specified by the \fB-p\fR
option. As of this release, \fBgnuplot\fR is the only supported format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR, \fB--plot\fR=\fIplotfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write network usage data to a file of the format specified by the \fB-F\fR
option, which is required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--start\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR, \fB--stop\fR=\fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Start and stop times for data display. Time is in the format
\fIMM\fR/\fIDD\fR/\fIYYYY\fR,\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If specified, display the network usage only for the named link. Otherwise,
display network usage for all links.
.RE

.RE

.SS "Parseable Output Format"
.LP
Many \fBdladm\fR subcommands have an option that displays output in a
machine-parseable format. The output format is one or more lines of colon
(\fB:\fR) delimited fields. The fields displayed are specific to the subcommand
used and are listed under the entry for the \fB-o\fR option for a given
subcommand. Output includes only those fields requested by means of the
\fB-o\fR option, in the order requested.
.sp
.LP
When you request multiple fields, any literal colon characters are escaped by a
backslash (\fB\e\fR) before being output. Similarly, literal backslash
characters will also be escaped (\fB\e\e\fR). This escape format is parseable
by using shell \fBread\fR(1) functions with the environment variable
\fBIFS=:\fR (see \fBEXAMPLES\fR, below). Note that escaping is not done when
you request only a single field.
.SS "General Link Properties"
.LP
The following general link properties are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBallowed-ips\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-seperated list of IP addresses that are allowed on the interface.
.sp
An address in CIDR format with no host address specified is used to indicate
that any address on that subnet is allowed (e.g. 192.168.10.0/24 means any
address in the range 192.168.10.0 - 192.168.10.255 is allowed).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBautopush\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the set of STREAMS modules to push on the stream associated with a
link when its DLPI device is opened. It is a space-delimited list of modules.
.sp
The optional special character sequence \fB[anchor]\fR indicates that a STREAMS
anchor should be placed on the stream at the module previously specified in the
list. It is an error to specify more than one anchor or to have an anchor first
in the list.
.sp
The \fBautopush\fR property is preferred over the more general
\fBautopush\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcpus\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bind the processing of packets for a given data link to a processor or a set of
processors. The value can be a comma-separated list of one or more processor
ids. If the list consists of more than one processor, the processing will
spread out to all the processors. Connection to processor affinity and packet
ordering for any individual connection will be maintained.
.sp
The processor or set of processors are not exclusively reserved for the link.
Only the kernel threads and interrupts associated with processing of the link
are bound to the processor or the set of processors specified. In case it is
desired that processors be dedicated to the link, \fBpsrset\fR(1M) can be used
to create a processor set and then specifying the processors from the processor
set to bind the link to.
.sp
If the link was already bound to processor or set of processors due to a
previous operation, the binding will be removed and the new set of processors
will be used instead.
.sp
The default is no CPU binding, which is to say that the processing of packets
is not bound to any specific processor or processor set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlearn_limit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Limits the number of new or changed MAC sources to be learned over a bridge
link. When the number exceeds this value, learning on that link is temporarily
disabled. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property.
.sp
The default value is \fB1000\fR. Valid values are greater or equal to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlearn_decay\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the decay rate for source changes limited by \fBlearn_limit\fR. This
number is subtracted from the counter for a bridge link every 5 seconds. Only
non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property.
.sp
The default value is \fB200\fR. Valid values are greater or equal to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmaxbw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the full duplex bandwidth for the link. The bandwidth is specified as an
integer with one of the scale suffixes (\fBK\fR, \fBM\fR, or \fBG\fR for Kbps,
Mbps, and Gbps). If no units are specified, the input value will be read as
Mbps. The default is no bandwidth limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpriority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the relative priority for the link. The value can be given as one of the
tokens \fBhigh\fR, \fBmedium\fR, or \fBlow\fR. The default is \fBhigh\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables Spanning Tree Protocol on a bridge link. Setting this value
to \fB0\fR disables Spanning Tree, and puts the link into forwarding mode with
BPDU guarding enabled. This mode is appropriate for point-to-point links
connected only to end nodes. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this
property. The default value is \fB1\fR, to enable STP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBforward\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables forwarding for a VLAN. Setting this value to \fB0\fR
disables bridge forwarding for a VLAN link. Disabling bridge forwarding removes
that VLAN from the "allowed set" for the bridge. The default value is \fB1\fR,
to enable bridge forwarding for configured VLANs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdefault_tag\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the default VLAN ID that is assumed for untagged packets sent to and
received from this link. Only non-VLAN, non-VNIC type links have this property.
Setting this value to \fB0\fR disables the bridge forwarding of untagged
packets to and from the port. The default value is \fBVLAN ID 1\fR. Valid
values values are from 0 to 4094.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstp_priority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the STP and RSTP Port Priority value, which is used to determine the
preferred root port on a bridge. Lower numerical values are higher priority.
The default value is \fB128\fR. Valid values range from 0 to 255.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstp_cost\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the STP and RSTP cost for using the link. The default value is \fBauto\fR,
which sets the cost based on link speed, using \fB100\fR for 10Mbps, \fB19\fR
for 100Mbps, \fB4\fR for 1Gbps, and \fB2\fR for 10Gbps. Valid values range from
1 to 65535.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstp_edge\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables bridge edge port detection. If set to \fB0\fR (false), the
system assumes that the port is connected to other bridges even if no bridge
PDUs of any type are seen. The default value is \fB1\fR, which detects edge
ports automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstp_p2p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets bridge point-to-point operation mode. Possible values are \fBtrue\fR,
\fBfalse\fR, and \fBauto\fR. When set to \fBauto\fR, point-to-point connections
are automatically discovered. When set to \fBtrue\fR, the port mode is forced
to use point-to-point. When set to \fBfalse\fR, the port mode is forced to use
normal multipoint mode. The default value is \fBauto\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstp_mcheck\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Triggers the system to run the RSTP \fBForce BPDU Migration Check\fR procedure
on this link. The procedure is triggered by setting the property value to
\fB1\fR. The property is automatically reset back to \fB0\fR. This value cannot
be set unless the following are true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The link is bridged
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The bridge is protected by Spanning Tree
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The bridge \fBforce-protocol\fR value is at least 2 (RSTP)
.RE
The default value is 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBzone\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the zone to which the link belongs. This property can be modified
only temporarily through \fBdladm\fR, and thus the \fB-t\fR option must be
specified. To modify the zone assignment such that it persists across reboots,
please use \fBzonecfg\fR(1M). Possible values consist of any exclusive-IP zone
currently running on the system. By default, the zone binding is as per
\fBzonecfg\fR(1M).
.RE

.SS "Wifi Link Properties"
.LP
The following \fBWiFi\fR link properties are supported. Note that the ability
to set a given property to a given value depends on the driver and hardware.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBchannel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the channel to use. This property can be modified only by certain
\fBWiFi\fR links when in \fBIBSS\fR mode. The default value and allowed range
of values varies by regulatory domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpowermode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the power management mode of the \fBWiFi\fR link. Possible values are
\fBoff\fR (disable power management), \fBmax\fR (maximum power savings), and
\fBfast\fR (performance-sensitive power management). Default is \fBoff\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBradio\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the radio mode of the \fBWiFi\fR link. Possible values are \fBon\fR
or \fBoff\fR. Default is \fBon\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBspeed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a fixed speed for the \fBWiFi\fR link, in megabits per second. The
set of possible values depends on the driver and hardware (but is shown by
\fBshow-linkprop\fR); common speeds include 1, 2, 11, and 54. By default, there
is no fixed speed.
.RE

.SS "Ethernet Link Properties"
.LP
The following MII Properties, as documented in \fBieee802.3\fR(5), are
supported in read-only mode:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBduplex\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBstate\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_10gfdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_1000fdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_1000hdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_100fdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_100hdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_10fdx_cap\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBadv_10hdx_cap\fR
.RE
.sp
.LP
Each \fBadv_\fR property (for example, \fBadv_10fdx_cap\fR) also has a
read/write counterpart \fBen_\fR property (for example, \fBen_10fdx_cap\fR)
controlling parameters used at auto-negotiation. In the absence of Power
Management, the \fBadv\fR* speed/duplex parameters provide the values that are
both negotiated and currently effective in hardware. However, with Power
Management enabled, the speed/duplex capabilities currently exposed in hardware
might be a subset of the set of bits that were used in initial link parameter
negotiation. Thus the MII \fBadv_\fR* parameters are marked read-only, with an
additional set of \fBen_\fR* parameters for configuring speed and duplex
properties at initial negotiation.
.sp
.LP
Note that the \fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR does not have an \fBen_autoneg_cap\fR
counterpart: the \fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR is a 0/1 switch that turns off/on
autonegotiation itself, and therefore cannot be impacted by Power Management.
.sp
.LP
In addition, the following Ethernet properties are reported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBspeed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
(read-only) The operating speed of the device, in Mbps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmtu\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The maximum client SDU (Send Data Unit) supported by the device. Valid range is
68-65536.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowctrl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Establishes flow-control modes that will be advertised by the device. Valid
input is one of:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBno\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No flow control enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Receive, and act upon incoming pause frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transmit pause frames to the peer when congestion occurs, but ignore received
pause frames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Bidirectional flow control.
.RE

Note that the actual settings for this value are constrained by the
capabilities allowed by the device and the link partner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsecondary-macs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-seperated list of additional MAC addresses that are allowed on the
interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtagmode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This link property controls the conditions in which 802.1Q VLAN tags will be
inserted in packets being transmitted on the link. Two mode values can be
assigned to this property:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnormal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Insert a VLAN tag in outgoing packets under the following conditions:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The packet belongs to a VLAN.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The user requested priority tagging.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvlanonly\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Insert a VLAN tag only when the outgoing packet belongs to a VLAN. If a tag is
being inserted in this mode and the user has also requested a non-zero
priority, the priority is honored and included in the VLAN tag.
.RE

The default value is \fBvlanonly\fR.
.RE

.SS "IP Tunnel Link Properties"
.LP
The following IP tunnel link properties are supported.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhoplimit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the IPv4 TTL or IPv6 hop limit for the encapsulating outer IP header
of a tunnel link. This property exists for all tunnel types. The default value
is 64.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBencaplimit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the IPv6 encapsulation limit for an IPv6 tunnel as defined in RFC
2473. This value is the tunnel nesting limit for a given tunneled packet. The
default value is 4. A value of 0 disables the encapsulation limit.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConfiguring an Aggregation
.sp
.LP
To configure a data-link over an aggregation of devices \fBbge0\fR and
\fBbge1\fR with key 1, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-aggr -d bge0 -d bge1 1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRConnecting to a WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
To connect to the most optimal available unsecured network on a system with a
single \fBWiFi\fR link (as per the prioritization rules specified for
\fBconnect-wifi\fR), enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRCreating a WiFi Key
.sp
.LP
To interactively create the \fBWEP\fR key \fBmykey\fR, enter the following
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-secobj -c wep mykey\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Alternatively, to non-interactively create the \fBWEP\fR key \fBmykey\fR using
the contents of a file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBumask 077\fR
 # \fBcat >/tmp/mykey.$$ <<EOF\fR
 \fB12345\fR
 \fBEOF\fR
 # \fBdladm create-secobj -c wep -f /tmp/mykey.$$ mykey\fR
 # \fBrm /tmp/mykey.$$\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRConnecting to a Specified Encrypted WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
To use key \fBmykey\fR to connect to \fBESSID\fR \fBwlan\fR on link \fBath0\fR,
enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi -k mykey -e wlan ath0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRChanging a Link Property
.sp
.LP
To set \fBpowermode\fR to the value \fBfast\fR on link \fBpcwl0\fR, enter the
following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm set-linkprop -p powermode=fast pcwl0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRConnecting to a WPA-Protected WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
Create a WPA key \fBpsk\fR and enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-secobj -c wpa psk\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To then use key \fBpsk\fR to connect to ESSID \fBwlan\fR on link \fBath0\fR,
enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi -k psk -e wlan ath0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRRenaming a Link
.sp
.LP
To rename the \fBbge0\fR link to \fBmgmt0\fR, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm rename-link bge0 mgmt0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRReplacing a Network Card
.sp
.LP
Consider that the \fBbge0\fR device, whose link was named \fBmgmt0\fR as shown
in the previous example, needs to be replaced with a \fBce0\fR device because
of a hardware failure. The \fBbge0\fR NIC is physically removed, and replaced
with a new \fBce0\fR NIC. To associate the newly added \fBce0\fR device with
the \fBmgmt0\fR configuration previously associated with \fBbge0\fR, enter the
following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm rename-link ce0 mgmt0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9 \fRRemoving a Network Card
.sp
.LP
Suppose that in the previous example, the intent is not to replace the
\fBbge0\fR NIC with another NIC, but rather to remove and not replace the
hardware. In that case, the \fBmgmt0\fR datalink configuration is not slated to
be associated with a different physical device as shown in the previous
example, but needs to be deleted. Enter the following command to delete the
datalink configuration associated with the \fBmgmt0\fR datalink, whose physical
hardware (\fBbge0\fR in this case) has been removed:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm delete-phys mgmt0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 10 \fRUsing Parseable Output to Capture a Single Field
.sp
.LP
The following assignment saves the MTU of link \fBnet0\fR to a variable named
\fBmtu\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmtu=`dladm show-link -p -o mtu net0`\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 11 \fRUsing Parseable Output to Iterate over Links
.sp
.LP
The following script displays the state of each link on the system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-link -p -o link,state | while IFS=: read link state; do
            print "Link $link is in state $state"
        done\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 12 \fRConfiguring VNICs
.sp
.LP
Create two VNICs with names \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR over a single physical
link \fBbge0\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 hello0\fR
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 test1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 13 \fRConfiguring VNICs and Allocating Bandwidth and Priority
.sp
.LP
Create two VNICs with names \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR over a single physical
link \fBbge0\fR and make \fBhello0\fR a high priority VNIC with a
factory-assigned MAC address with a maximum bandwidth of 50 Mbps. Make
\fBtest1\fR a low priority VNIC with a random MAC address and a maximum
bandwidth of 100Mbps.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m factory -p maxbw=50,priority=high hello0\fR
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m random -p maxbw=100M,priority=low test1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 14 \fRConfiguring a VNIC with a Factory MAC Address
.sp
.LP
First, list the available factory MAC addresses and choose one of them:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-phys -m bge0\fR
LINK            SLOT         ADDRESS              INUSE    CLIENT
bge0            primary      0:e0:81:27:d4:47     yes      bge0
bge0            1            8:0:20:fe:4e:a5      no
bge0            2            8:0:20:fe:4e:a6      no
bge0            3            8:0:20:fe:4e:a7      no
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Create a VNIC named \fBhello0\fR and use slot 1's address:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m factory -n 1 hello0\fR
# \fBdladm show-phys -m bge0\fR
LINK            SLOT         ADDRESS              INUSE    CLIENT
bge0            primary      0:e0:81:27:d4:47     yes      bge0
bge0            1            8:0:20:fe:4e:a5      yes      hello0
bge0            2            8:0:20:fe:4e:a6      no
bge0            3            8:0:20:fe:4e:a7      no
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 15 \fRCreating a VNIC with User-Specified MAC Address, Binding it to
Set of Processors
.sp
.LP
Create a VNIC with name \fBhello0\fR, with a user specified MAC address, and a
processor binding \fB0, 1, 2, 3\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l bge0 -m 8:0:20:fe:4e:b8 -p cpus=0,1,2,3 hello0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 16 \fRCreating a Virtual Network Without a Physical NIC
.sp
.LP
First, create an etherstub with name \fBstub1\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-etherstub stub1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Create two VNICs with names \fBhello0\fR and \fBtest1\fR on the etherstub. This
operation implicitly creates a virtual switch connecting \fBhello0\fR and
\fBtest1\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l stub1 hello0\fR
# \fBdladm create-vnic -l stub1 test1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 17 \fRShowing Network Usage
.sp
.LP
Network usage statistics can be stored using the extended accounting facility,
\fBacctadm\fR(1M).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBacctadm -e basic -f /var/log/net.log net\fR
# \fBacctadm net\fR
          Network accounting: active
     Network accounting file: /var/log/net.log
   Tracked Network resources: basic
 Untracked Network resources: src_ip,dst_ip,src_port,dst_port,protocol,
                              dsfield
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The saved historical data can be retrieved in summary form using the
\fBshow-usage\fR subcommand:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-usage -f /var/log/net.log\fR
LINK      DURATION  IPACKETS RBYTES      OPACKETS OBYTES      BANDWIDTH
e1000g0   80        1031     546908      0        0           2.44 Kbps
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 18 \fRDisplaying Bridge Information
.sp
.LP
The following commands use the \fBshow-bridge\fR subcommand with no and various
options.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm show-bridge\fR
BRIDGE       PROTECT ADDRESS           PRIORITY DESROOT
foo          stp     32768/8:0:20:bf:f 32768    8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38
bar          stp     32768/8:0:20:e5:8 32768    8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38

# \fBdladm show-bridge -l foo\fR
LINK         STATE        UPTIME   DESROOT
hme0         forwarding   117      8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38
qfe1         forwarding   117      8192/0:d0:0:76:14:38

# \fBdladm show-bridge -s foo\fR
BRIDGE       DROPS        FORWARDS
foo          0            302

# \fBdladm show-bridge -ls foo\fR
LINK         DROPS     RECV      XMIT
hme0         0         360832    31797
qfe1         0         322311    356852

# \fBdladm show-bridge -f foo\fR
DEST              AGE     FLAGS  OUTPUT
8:0:20:bc:a7:dc   10.860  --     hme0
8:0:20:bf:f9:69   --      L      hme0
8:0:20:c0:20:26   17.420  --     hme0
8:0:20:e5:86:11   --      L      qfe1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 19 \fRCreating an IPv4 Tunnel
.sp
.LP
The following sequence of commands creates and then displays a persistent IPv4
tunnel link named \fBmytunnel0\fR between 66.1.2.3 and 192.4.5.6:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-iptun -T ipv4 -s 66.1.2.3 -d 192.4.5.6 mytunnel0\fR
# \fBdladm show-iptun mytunnel0\fR
LINK            TYPE  FLAGS  SOURCE              DESTINATION
mytunnel0       ipv4  --     66.1.2.3            192.4.5.6
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A point-to-point IP interface can then be created over this tunnel link:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBifconfig mytunnel0 plumb 10.1.0.1 10.1.0.2 up\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
As with any other IP interface, configuration persistence for this IP interface
is achieved by placing the desired \fBifconfig\fR commands (in this case, the
command for "\fB10.1.0.1 10.1.0.2\fR") into \fB/etc/hostname.mytunnel0\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 20 \fRCreating a 6to4 Tunnel
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a 6to4 tunnel link. The IPv4 address of the 6to4
router is 75.10.11.12.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-iptun -T 6to4 -s 75.10.11.12 sitetunnel0\fR
# \fBdladm show-iptun sitetunnel0\fR
LINK            TYPE  FLAGS  SOURCE              DESTINATION
sitetunnel0     6to4  --     75.10.11.12         --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command plumbs an IPv6 interface on this tunnel:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBifconfig sitetunnel0 inet6 plumb up\fR
# \fBifconfig sitetunnel0 inet6\fR
sitetunnel0: flags=2200041 <UP,RUNNING,NONUD,IPv6> mtu 65515 index 3
        inet tunnel src 75.10.11.12
        tunnel hop limit 64
        inet6 2002:4b0a:b0c::1/16
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that the system automatically configures the IPv6 address on the 6to4 IP
interface. See \fBifconfig\fR(1M) for a description of how IPv6 addresses are
configured on 6to4 tunnel links.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.LP
\fB/usr/sbin\fR
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.sp
.LP
\fB/sbin\fR
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBacctadm\fR(1M), \fBautopush\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBipsecconf\fR(1M),
\fBndd\fR(1M), \fBpsrset\fR(1M), \fBwpad\fR(1M), \fBzonecfg\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBieee802.3\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The preferred method of referring to an aggregation in the aggregation
subcommands is by its link name. Referring to an aggregation by its integer
\fIkey\fR is supported for backward compatibility, but is not necessary. When
creating an aggregation, if a \fIkey\fR is specified instead of a link name,
the aggregation's link name will be automatically generated by \fBdladm\fR as
\fBaggr\fR\fIkey\fR.
