'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DRD 1M "Jul 10, 2006"
.SH NAME
drd \- Logical Domain Dynamic Reconfiguration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ldoms/drd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdrd\fR daemon is part of the framework that enables the addition and
removal of resources from a Logical Domain. This framework is collectively
called Dynamic Reconfiguration (DR).
.sp
.LP
\fBdrd\fR is responsible for various aspects of DR on a Logical Domain and must
be enabled to ensure proper DR functionality. It is started at boot time and
has no configuration options.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBdrd\fR uses \fBsyslog\fR(3C) to report status and error messages. All of the
messages are logged with the \fBLOG_DAEMON\fR facility. Error messages are
logged with the \fBLOG_ERR\fR and \fBLOG_NOTICE\fR priorities, and
informational messages are logged with the \fBLOG_INFO\fR priority. The default
entries in the \fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR file log all the \fBdrd\fR error messages
to the \fB/var/adm/messages\fR log.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBdrd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4v/drd:default
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
