'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH EEPROM 1M "Feb 21, 2016"
.SH NAME
eeprom \- EEPROM display and load utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/eeprom\fR [\fB-\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fIparameter\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBeeprom\fR displays or changes the values of parameters in the \fBEEPROM.\fR
It processes parameters in the order given. When processing a \fIparameter\fR
accompanied by a \fIvalue\fR, \fBeeprom\fR makes the indicated alteration to
the \fBEEPROM;\fR otherwise, it displays the \fIparameter\fR's value. When
given no parameter specifiers, \fBeeprom\fR displays the values of all
\fBEEPROM\fR parameters. A `\|\(mi\fB\&'\fR (hyphen) flag specifies that
parameters and values are to be read from the standard input (one
\fIparameter\fR or \fIparameter\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR per line).
.sp
.LP
Only the super-user may alter the \fBEEPROM\fR contents.
.sp
.LP
\fBeeprom\fR verifies the \fBEEPROM\fR checksums and complains if they are
incorrect.
.sp
.LP
\fIplatform-name\fR is the name of the platform implementation and can be found
using the \fB-i\fR option of \fBuname\fR(1).
.SS "SPARC"
.LP
\fBSPARC\fR based systems implement firmware password protection with
\fBeeprom\fR, using the \fBsecurity-mode\fR, \fBsecurity-password\fR and
\fBsecurity-#badlogins\fR properties.
.SS "x86"
.LP
\fBEEPROM\fR storage is simulated using a file residing in the
platform-specific boot area. The \fB/boot/solaris/bootenv.rc\fR file simulates
\fBEEPROM\fR storage.
.sp
.LP
Because x86 based systems typically implement password protection in the system
\fBBIOS,\fR there is no support for password protection in the \fBeeprom\fR
program. While it is possible to set the \fBsecurity-mode\fR,
\fBsecurity-password\fR and \fBsecurity-#badlogins\fR properties on x86 based
systems, these properties have no special meaning or behavior on x86 based
systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use \fIdevice\fR as the \fBEEPROM\fR device.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.SS "x86 Only"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIacpi-user-options\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A configuration variable that controls the use of Advanced Configuration and
Power Interface (ACPI), a power management specification. The acceptable values
for this variable depend on the release of the Solaris operating system you are
using.
.sp
For all releases of Solaris 10 and Solaris 11, a value of of \fB0x0\fR means
that there will be an attempt to use ACPI if it is available on the system. A
value of \fB0x2\fR disables the use of ACPI.
.sp
For the Solaris 10 1/06 release, a value of \fB0x8\fR means that there will be
an attempt to use ACPI in a mode compatible with previous releases of Solaris
10 if it is available on the system. The default for Solaris 10 1/06 is
\fB0x8\fR.
.sp
For releases of Solaris 10 after the 1/06 release and for Solaris 11, the
default is \fB0x0\fR.
.sp
Most users can safely accept the default value, which enables ACPI if
available. If issues related to the use of ACPI are suspected on releases of
Solaris after Solaris 1/06, it is suggested to first try a value of \fB0x8\fR
and then, if you do not obtain satisfactory results, \fB0x02\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconsole\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the console device.
Possible values are \fBttya\fR, \fBttyb\fR, \fBttyc\fR, \fBttyd\fR, and
\fBtext\fR. In \fBtext\fR mode, console output goes to the frame buffer and
input comes from the keyboard. For SPARC, when this property is not present,
the console device falls back to the device specified by \fBinput-device\fR and
\fBoutput-device\fR. When neither the console property or the
\fBinput-device\fR and \fBoutput-device\fR property pair are present, the
console defaults to the frame buffer and keyboard.
.RE

.SS "x86 Only"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIos_console\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
While \fBconsole\fR controls both boot loader and kernel console, setting
\fBos_console\fR allows setting console device only for kernel. Values
are the same as for \fBconsole\fR.
.RE

.SH NVRAM CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
.LP
Not all OpenBoot systems support all parameters. Defaults vary depending on the
system and the \fBPROM\fR revision. See the output in the "Default Value"
column of the \fBprintenv\fR command, as entered at the \fBok\fR (OpenBoot)
prompt, to determine the default for your system.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBauto-boot?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, boots automatically after power-on or reset. Defaults to
\fBtrue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBansi-terminal?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration variable used to control the behavior of the terminal emulator.
The value \fBfalse\fR makes the terminal emulator stop interpreting \fBANSI\fR
escape sequences; instead, echoes them to the output device. Defaults to
\fBtrue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-args\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Holds a string of arguments that are passed to the boot subsystem. For example,
you can use \fBboot-args=' - install dhcp'\fR to request a customer jumpstart
installation. See \fBboot\fR(1M), \fBkadb\fR(1M) and \fBkernel\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-command\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Command executed if \fBauto-boot?\fR is \fBtrue\fR. Defaults to \fBboot\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-device\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device from which to boot. \fIboot-device\fR may contain 0 or more device
specifiers separated by spaces. Each device specifier may be either a prom
device alias or a prom device path. The boot prom will attempt to open each
successive device specifier in the list beginning with the first device
specifier. The first device specifier that opens successfully will be used as
the device to boot from. Defaults to \fBdisk net\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File to boot (an empty string lets the secondary booter choose default).
Defaults to empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-from\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Boot device and file (OpenBoot PROM version 1.\fIx\fR only). Defaults to
\fBvmunix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-from-diag\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Diagnostic boot device and file (OpenBoot PROM version 1.\fIx\fR only).
Defaults to \fBle(\|)unix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot-ncpus\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration variable that controls the number of processors with which the
system should boot. By default, the system boots with maximum supported number
of processors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBcom\fIX\fR-noprobe\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Where \fIX\fR is the number of the serial port, prevents device probe on serial
port \fIX.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdiag-device\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Diagnostic boot source device. Defaults to \fBnet\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdiag-file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File from which to boot in diagnostic mode. Defaults to empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdiag-level\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Diagnostics level. Values include \fBoff\fR, \fBmin\fR, \fBmax\fR and
\fBmenus\fR. There may be additional platform-specific values. When set to
\fBoff\fR, \fBPOST\fR is not called. If \fBPOST\fR is called, the value is made
available as an argument to, and is interpreted by \fBPOST.\fR Defaults to
\fBplatform-dependent\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdiag-switch?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, run in diagnostic mode. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR on most desktop
systems, \fBtrue\fR on most servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBerror-reset-recovery\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recover after an error reset trap. Defaults to platform-specific setting.
.sp
On platforms supporting this variable, it replaces the \fBwatchdog-reboot?\fR,
\fBwatchdog-sync?\fR, \fBredmode-reboot?\fR, \fBredmode-sync?\fR,
\fBsir-sync?\fR, and \fBxir-sync?\fR parameters.
.sp
The options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnone\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print a message describing the reset trap and go to OpenBoot PROM's user
interface, \fBaka\fR \fBOK\fR prompt.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsync\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invoke OpenBoot PROM's \fBsync\fR word after the reset trap. Some platforms may
treat this as \fBnone\fR after an externally initiated reset (\fBXIR\fR) trap.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBboot\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reboot after the reset trap. Some platforms may treat this as \fBnone\fR after
an \fBXIR\fR trap.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBfcode-debug?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, include name parameter for plug-in device FCodes. Defaults to
\fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhardware-revision\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
System version information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinput-device\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Input device used at power-on (usually \fBkeyboard\fR, \fBttya\fR,
\fBttyb\fR, \fBttyc\fR, or \fBttyd\fR). Defaults to \fBkeyboard\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBkeyboard-click?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, enable keyboard click. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBkeyboard-layout\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A string that specifies the layout  name  for  non-self-identifying  keyboards
(type 7c). Invoke \fBkbd\fR \fB-s\fR to obtain a list  of acceptable layout
names. See \fBkbd\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBkeymap\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Keymap for custom keyboard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBlast-hardware-update\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
System update information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBload-base\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default load address for client programs. Default value is \fB16384\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBlocal-mac-address?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If true, network drivers use their own MAC address, not the system's. Defaults
to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmfg-mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Manufacturing mode argument for \fBPOST.\fR Possible values include \fBoff\fR
or \fBchamber\fR. The value is passed as an argument to \fBPOST.\fR Defaults to
\fBoff\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmfg-switch?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If true, repeat system self-tests until interrupted with STOP-A. Defaults to
\fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnvramrc\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contents of NVRAMRC. Defaults to empty.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Arguments to be used by the PROM for network booting. Defaults to an empty
string. \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR can be used to specify the boot protocol
(RARP/DHCP) to be used and a range of system knowledge to be used in the
process.
.sp
The syntax for arguments supported for network booting is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[\fIprotocol\fR,] [\fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR,]*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

All arguments are optional and can appear in any order. Commas are required
unless the argument is at the end of the list. If specified, an argument takes
precedence over any default values, or, if booting using DHCP, over
configuration information provided by a DHCP server for those parameters.
.sp
\fIprotocol\fR, above, specifies the address discovery protocol to be used.
.sp
Configuration parameters, listed below, are specified as \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR
attribute pairs.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtftp-server\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP address of the TFTP server
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file to download using TFTP or URL for WAN boot
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhost-ip\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP address of the client (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrouter-ip\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP address of the default router (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsubnet-mask\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
subnet mask (in dotted-decimal notation)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBclient-id\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
DHCP client identifier
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhostname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
hostname to use in DHCP transactions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhttp-proxy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
HTTP proxy server specification (IPADDR[:PORT])
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtftp-retries\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
maximum number of TFTP retries
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdhcp-retries\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
maximum number of DHCP retries
.RE

If no parameters are specified (that is, \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR is an
empty string), the PROM will use the platform-specific default address
discovery protocol.
.sp
Absence of the protocol parameter when other configuration parameters are
specified implies manual configuration.
.sp
Manual configuration requires that the client be provided with all the
information necessary for boot. If using manual configuration, information
required by the PROM to load the second-stage boot program must be provided in
\fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR while information required for the second-stage
boot program can be specified either as arguments to the \fBboot\fR program or
by means of the \fBboot\fR program's interactive command interpreter.
.sp
Information required by the PROM when using manual configuration includes the
booting client's IP address, name of the boot file, and the address of the
server providing the boot file image. Depending on network configuration, it
might be required that the subnet mask and address of the default router to use
also be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoem-banner\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Custom OEM banner (enabled by setting \fBoem-banner?\fR to \fBtrue\fR).
Defaults to empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoem-banner?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, use custom \fBOEM\fR banner. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoem-logo\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Byte array custom OEM logo (enabled by setting \fBoem-logo?\fR to \fBtrue\fR).
Displayed in hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoem-logo?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, use custom OEM logo (else, use Sun logo). Defaults to
\fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpci-mem64?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If true, the OpenBoot PROM allocates 64-bit PCI memory addresses to a PCI
device that can support 64-bit addresses.
.sp
This variable is available on SPARC platforms only and is optional. Some
versions of SunOS do not support PCI \fBMEM64\fR addresses and will fail in
unexpected ways if the OpenBoot PROM allocates PCI \fBMEM64\fR addresses.
.sp
The default value is system-dependent. If the variable exists, the default
value is appropriate to the lowest version of the SunOS that shipped with a
specific platform.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoutput-device\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Output device used at power-on (usually \fBscreen\fR, \fBttya\fR,
\fBttyb\fR, \fBttyc\fR, or \fBttyd\fR). Defaults to \fBscreen\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBredmode-reboot?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify \fBtrue\fR to reboot after a redmode reset trap. Defaults to
\fBtrue\fR. (Sun Enterprise 10000 only.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBredmode-sync?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify \fBtrue\fR to invoke OpenBoot PROM's \fBsync\fR word after a redmode
reset trap. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR. (Sun Enterprise 10000 only.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBrootpath\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the root device of the operating system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsbus-probe-list\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Designate which SBus slots are probed and in what order. Defaults to
\fB0123\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBscreen-#columns\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of on-screen columns (characters/line). Defaults to \fB80\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBscreen-#rows\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of on-screen rows (lines). Defaults to \fB34\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBscsi-initiator-id\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBSCSI\fR bus address of host adapter, range 0-7. Defaults to \fB7\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsd-targets\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Map \fBSCSI\fR disk units (OpenBoot PROM version 1.\fIx\fR only). Defaults to
\fB31204567\fR, which means that unit 0 maps to target \fB3\fR, unit 1 maps to
target \fB1\fR, and so on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsecurity-#badlogins\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Number of incorrect security password attempts.This property has no special
meaning or behavior on x86 based systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsecurity-mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Firmware security level (options: \fBnone\fR, \fBcommand\fR, or \fBfull\fR). If
set to \fBcommand\fR or \fBfull\fR, system will prompt for \fBPROM\fR security
password. Defaults to \fBnone\fR.This property has no special meaning or
behavior on x86 based systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsecurity-password\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Firmware security password (never displayed). Can be set only when
\fBsecurity-mode\fR is set to \fBcommand\fR or \fBfull\fR.This property has no
special meaning or behavior on x86 based systems.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# eeprom security-password=
Changing PROM password:
New password:
Retype new password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBselftest-#megs\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Megabytes of \fBRAM\fR to test. Ignored if \fBdiag-switch?\fR is \fBtrue\fR.
Defaults to \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsir-sync?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify \fBtrue\fR to invoke OpenBoot PROM's \fBsync\fR word after a
software-initiated reset (\fBSIR\fR) trap. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR. (Sun
Enterprise 10000 only.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBskip-vme-loopback?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, POST does not do VMEbus loopback tests. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBst-targets\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Map \fBSCSI\fR tape units (OpenBoot PROM version 1.\fIx\fR only). Defaults to
\fB45670123\fR, which means that unit 0 maps to target \fB4\fR, unit 1 maps to
target \fB5\fR, and so on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsunmon-compat?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, display Restricted Monitor prompt (\|>). Defaults to
\fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtestarea\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One-byte scratch field, available for read/write test. Defaults to \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtpe-link-test?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable 10baseT link test for built-in twisted pair Ethernet. Defaults to
\fBtrue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBttya-mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBTTYA\fR (baud rate, #bits, parity, #stop, handshake). Defaults to
\fB9600,8,n,1,\(mi\fR.
.sp
Fields, in left-to-right order, are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBBaud rate:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
110, 300, 1200, 4800, 9600\|.\|.\|.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBData bits:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
5, 6, 7, 8
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBParity:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
n(none), e(even), o(odd), m(mark), s(space)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBStop bits:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
1, 1.5, 2
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBHandshake:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\(mi(none), h(hardware:rts/cts), s(software:xon/xoff)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtty\fIX\fR-mode\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBTTYB, TTYC, or TTYD\fR (baud rate, #bits, parity, #stop, handshake). Defaults to
\fB9600,8,n,1,\(mi\fR.
.sp
Fields, in left-to-right order, are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBBaud rate:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
110, 300, 1200, 4800, 9600\|.\|.\|.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBData bits:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
5, 6, 7, 8
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBStop bits:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
1, 1.5, 2
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBParity:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
n(none), e(even), o(odd), m(mark), s(space)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBHandshake:\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\(mi(none), h(hardware:rts/cts), s(software:xon/xoff)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBttya-ignore-cd\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, operating system ignores carrier-detect on TTYA. Defaults to
\fBtrue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtty\fIX\fR-ignore-cd\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, operating system ignores carrier-detect on TTYB, TTYC, or TTYD.
Defaults to \fBtrue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBttya-rts-dtr-off\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, operating system does not assert DTR and RTS on TTYA. Defaults
to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtty\fIX\fR-rts-dtr-off\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, operating system does not assert DTR and RTS on TTYB, TTYC,
or TTYD. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBuse-nvramrc?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, execute commands in \fBNVRAMRC\fR during system start-up.
Defaults to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBverbosity\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls the level of verbosity of PROM messages. Can be one of \fBdebug\fR,
\fBmax\fR, \fBnormal\fR, \fBmin\fR, or \fBnone\fR. Defaults to \fBnormal\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBversion2?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, hybrid (1.\fIx\fR/2.\fIx\fR) PROM comes up in version 2.\fIx\fR.
Defaults to \fBtrue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwatchdog-reboot?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBtrue\fR, reboot after watchdog reset. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwatchdog-sync?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify \fBtrue\fR to invoke OpenBoot PROM's \fBsync\fR word after a watchdog
reset trap. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR. ( Sun Enterprise 10000 only.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBxir-sync?\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify \fBtrue\fR to invoke OpenBoot PROM's \fBsync\fR word after an \fBXIR\fR
trap. Defaults to \fBfalse\fR. (Sun Enterprise 10000 only.)
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRChanging the Number of Megabytes of RAM.
.sp
.LP
The following example demonstrates the method for changing from one to two the
number of megabytes of \fBRAM\fR that the system will test.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBeeprom selftest-#megs\fR
selftest-#megs=1

example# eeprom selftest-#megs=2

example# \fBeeprom selftest-#megs\fR
selftest-#megs=2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting the \fBauto-boot?\fR Parameter to \fBtrue\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following example demonstrates the method for setting the \fBauto-boot?\fR
parameter to \fBtrue\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBeeprom auto-boot?=true\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the \fBeeprom\fR command is executed in user mode, the parameters with a
trailing question mark (?) need to be enclosed in double quotation marks (" ")
to prevent the shell from interpreting the question mark. Preceding the
question mark with an escape character (\fB\e\fR) will also prevent the shell
from interpreting the question mark.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% eeprom "auto-boot?"=true\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR
.sp
.LP
To use DHCP as the boot protocol and a hostname of \fBabcd.example.com\fR for
network booting, set these values in \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR as:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBeeprom network-boot-arguments="dhcp,hostname=abcd.example.com"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&...then boot using the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ok \fBboot net\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that network boot arguments specified from the PROM command line cause the
contents of \fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR to be ignored. For example, with
\fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR set as shown above, the \fBboot\fR command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
ok \fBboot net:dhcp\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&...causes DHCP to be used, but the \fBhostname\fR specified in
\fBnetwork-boot-arguments\fR will not be used during network boot.

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRSetting System Console to Auxiliary Device
.sp
.LP
The command below assigns the device \fB/dev/term/a\fR as the system console
device. You would make such an assignment prior to using \fBtip\fR(1) to
establish a \fBtip\fR connection to a host.

.sp
.LP
On a SPARC machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBeeprom output-device=/dev/term/a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
On an x86 machine:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBeeprom console=ttya\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
On a SPARC machine, the preceding command would be sufficient for assigning the
console to an auxiliary device. For an x86 machine, you might, in addition,
need to set the characteristics of the serial line, for which you would have to
consult the BIOS documentation for that machine. Also, on some x86 machines,
you might use a device other than device \fBa\fR, as shown above. For example,
you could set console to \fBttyb\fR if the second serial port is present.

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/boot/solaris/bootenv.rc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File storing \fBeeprom\fR values on x86 machines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/openprom\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Device file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/platform/\fR\fIplatform-name\fR\fB/sbin/eeprom\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Platform-specific version of \fBeeprom\fR. Use \fBuname\fR \fB-i\fR to obtain
\fIplatform-name\fR.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1),  \fBtip\fR(1),  \fBuname\fR(1),
\fBboot\fR(1M), \fBkadb\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBinit\fR(1M),
\fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIOpenBoot 3.x Command Reference Manual\fR
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
