'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH EFDAEMON 1M "Aug 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
efdaemon \- embedded FCode interpreter daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/efcode/sparcv9/efdaemon\fR [\fB-d\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBefdaemon\fR, the embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter daemon, invokes the
embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter when the daemon receives an interpretation
request. A new session of the interpreter is started for each unique request by
invoking the script \fB/usr/lib/efcode/efcode\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBefdaemon\fR is used on selected platforms as part of the processing of some
dynamic reconfiguration events.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Set debug output. Log debug messages as \fBLOG_DEBUG\fR level messages by using
\fBsyslog()\fR. See \fBsyslog\fR(3C).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/fcode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBFCode\fR interpreter pseudo device, which is a portal for receipt of
\fBFCode\fR interpretation requests
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/efcode/efcode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Shell script that invokes the embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/efcode/interpreter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/efcode/sparcv9/interpreter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Embedded \fBFCode\fR interpreter
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBefdaemon\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/platform/sun4u/efdaemon:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
