'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FLOWADM 1M "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
flowadm \- administer bandwidth resource control and priority for protocols,
services, containers, and virtual machines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm show-flow\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fIflow\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm add-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR \fB-a\fR \fIattr\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]
     \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR
\fBflowadm remove-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] {\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR}
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm set-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR
\fBflowadm reset-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] \fIflow\fR
\fBflowadm show-flowprop\fR [\fB-cP\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fIflow\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBflowadm show-usage\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-d\fR | {\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR \fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR}] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fIflow\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBflowadm\fR command is used to create, modify, remove, and show
networking bandwidth and associated resources for a type of traffic on a
particular link.
.sp
.LP
The \fBflowadm\fR command allows users to manage networking bandwidth resources
for a transport, service, or a subnet. The service is specified as a
combination of transport and local port. The subnet is specified by its IP
address and subnet mask. The command can be used on any type of data link,
including physical links, virtual NICs, and link aggregations.
.sp
.LP
A flow is defined as a set of attributes based on Layer 3 and Layer 4 headers,
which can be used to identify a protocol, service, or a virtual machine. When a
flow is identified based on flow attributes, separate kernel resources
including layer 2, 3, and 4 queues, their processing threads, and other
resources are uniquely created for it, such that other traffic has minimal or
zero impact on it.
.sp
.LP
Inbound and outbound packet are matched to flows in a very fast and scalable
way, so that limits can be enforced with minimal performance impact.
.sp
.LP
The \fBflowadm\fR command can be used to identify a flow without imposing any
bandwidth resource control. This would result in the traffic type getting its
own resources and queues so that it is isolated from rest of the networking
traffic for more observable and deterministic behavior.
.sp
.LP
\fBflowadm\fR is implemented as a set of subcommands with corresponding
options. Options are described in the context of each subcommand.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm show-flow\fR [\fB-pP\fR] [\fB-s\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR]]
[\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fIflow\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show flow configuration information (the default) or statistics, either for all
flows, all flows on a link, or for the specified \fIflow\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIfield\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display. The field
name must be one of the fields listed below, or a special value \fBall\fR, to
display all fields. For each flow found, the following fields can be displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the flow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the link the flow is on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBipaddr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP address of the flow. This can be either local or remote depending on how the
flow was defined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtransport\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the layer for protocol to be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBport\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Local port of service for flow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdsfield\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Differentiated services value for flow and mask used with \fBDSFIELD\fR value
to state the bits of interest in the differentiated services field of the IP
header.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB--parsable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parsable format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent flow property information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR, \fB--continuous\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Continuously display network utilization by flow in a manner similar to the way
that \fBprstat\fR(1M) displays CPU utilization by process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR, \fB--statistics\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays flow statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterval\fR, \fB--interval\fR=\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Used with the \fB-s\fR option to specify an interval, in seconds, at which
statistics should be displayed. If this option is not specified, statistics are
displayed once.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display information for all flows on the named link or information for the
named flow.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm add-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR
\fIlink\fR \fB-a\fR \fIattr\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fB-p\fR
\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds a flow to the system. The flow is identified by its flow attributes and
properties.
.sp
As part of identifying a particular flow, its bandwidth resource can be limited
and its relative priority to other traffic can be specified. If no bandwidth
limit or priority is specified, the traffic still gets its unique layer 2, 3,
and 4 queues and processing threads, including NIC hardware resources (when
supported), so that the selected traffic can be separated from others and can
flow with minimal impact from other traffic.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The changes are temporary and will not persist across reboots. Persistence is
the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply
persistent creation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the link to which the flow will be added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIattr\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--attr\fR=\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of attributes to be set to the specified values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to be set to the specified values.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm remove-flow\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-l\fR
{\fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove an existing flow identified by its link or name.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The changes are temporary and will not persist across reboots. Persistence is
the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply
persistent removal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR, \fB--link\fR=\fIlink\fR | \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If a link is specified, remove all flows from that link. If a single flow is
specified, remove only that flow.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm set-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR
\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...] \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set values of one or more properties on the flow specified by name. The
complete list of properties can be retrieved using the \fBshow-flow\fR
subcommand.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The changes are temporary and will not persist across reboots. Persistence is
the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply
persistent setting of properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to be set to the specified values.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm reset-flowprop\fR [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] \fB-p\fR
[\fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]] \fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resets one or more properties to their default values on the specified flow. If
no properties are specified, all properties are reset. See the
\fBshow-flowprop\fR subcommand for a description of properties, which includes
their default values.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB--temporary\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies that the resets are temporary. Temporary resets last until the next
reboot.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR, \fB--root-dir\fR=\fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an alternate root directory where \fBflowadm\fR should apply
persistent setting of properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIvalue\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to be reset.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm show-flowprop\fR [\fB-cP\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlink\fR] [\fB-p\fR
\fIprop\fR[,...]] [\fIflow\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the current or persistent values of one or more properties, either for all
flows, flows on a specified link, or for the specified flow.
.sp
By default, current values are shown. If no properties are specified, all
available flow properties are displayed. For each property, the following
fields are displayed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the flow.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROPERTY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVALUE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current (or persistent) property value. The value is shown as \fB--\fR
(double hyphen), if it is not set, and \fB?\fR (question mark), if the value is
unknown. Persistent values that are not set or have been reset will be shown as
\fB--\fR and will use the system \fBDEFAULT\fR value (if any).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The default value of the property. If the property has no default value,
\fB--\fR (double hyphen), is shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSSIBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of the values the property can have. If the values span
a numeric range, the minimum and maximum values might be shown as shorthand. If
the possible values are unknown or unbounded, \fB--\fR (double hyphen), is
shown.
.RE

Flow properties are documented in the "Flow Properties" section, below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using a stable machine-parsable format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR, \fB--persistent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display persistent flow property information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprop\fR[,...], \fB--prop\fR=\fIprop\fR[,...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A comma-separated list of properties to show.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflowadm show-usage\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-d\fR | {\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR
\fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR}] [\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fItime\fR]
[\fIflow\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the historical network flow usage from a stored extended accounting file.
Configuration and enabling of network accounting through \fBacctadm\fR(1M) is
required. The default output will be the summary of flow usage for the entire
period of time in which extended accounting was enabled.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display all historical network usage for the specified period of time during
which extended accounting is enabled. This includes the usage information for
the flows that have already been deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the dates for which there is logging information. The date is in the
format \fIDD\fR/\fIMM\fR/\fIYYYY\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIformat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the format of \fIplotfile\fR that is specified by the \fB-p\fR
option. As of this release, \fBgnuplot\fR is the only supported format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIplotfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When specified with \fB-s\fR or \fB-e\fR (or both), outputs flow usage data to
a file of the format specified by the \fB-F\fR option, which is required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fItime\fR, \fB-e\fR \fItime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Start and stop times for data display. Time is in the format
\fIYYYY\fR.\fIMM\fR.\fIDD\fR,\fIhh\fR:\fImm\fR:\fIss\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read extended accounting records of network flow usage from \fIfilename\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If specified, display the network flow usage only from the named flow.
Otherwise, display network usage from all flows.
.RE

.RE

.SS "Flow Attributes"
.LP
The flow operand that identify a flow in a \fBflowadm\fR command is a
comma-separated list of one or more keyword, value pairs from the list below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlocal_ip\fR[\fB/\fR\fIprefix_len\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a network flow by the local IP address. \fIvalue\fR must be a IPv4
address in dotted-decimal notation or an IPv6 address in colon-separated
notation. \fIprefix_len\fR is optional.
.sp
If \fIprefix_len\fR is specified, it describes the netmask for a subnet
address, following the same notation convention of \fBifconfig\fR(1M) and
\fBroute\fR(1M) addresses. If unspecified, the given IP address will be
considered as a host address for which the default prefix length for a IPv4
address is \fB/32\fR and for IPv6 is \fB/128\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBremote_ip\fR[\fB/\fR\fIprefix_len\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a network flow by the remote IP address. The syntax is the same as
\fBlocal_ip\fR attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtransport\fR={\fBtcp\fR|\fBudp\fR|\fBsctp\fR|\fBicmp\fR|\fBicmpv6\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a layer 4 protocol to be used. It is typically used in combination
with local_port to identify the service that needs special attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlocal_port\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies a service specified by the local port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdsfield\fR[\fB:\fR\fIdsfield_mask\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies the 8-bit differentiated services field (as defined in RFC 2474).
.sp
The optional \fIdsfield_mask\fR is used to state the bits of interest in the
differentiated services field when comparing with the \fBdsfield\fR value. A
\fB0\fR in a bit position indicates that the bit value needs to be ignored and
a \fB1\fR indicates otherwise. The mask can range from \fB0x01\fR to
\fB0xff\fR. If \fIdsfield_mask\fR is not specified, the default mask \fB0xff\fR
is used. Both the \fBdsfield\fR value and mask must be in hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following five types of combinations of attributes are supported:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
local_ip[/\fIprefixlen\fR]=\fIaddress\fR
remote_ip[/\fIprefixlen\fR]=\fIaddress\fR
transport={tcp|udp|sctp|icmp|icmpv6}
transport={tcp|udp|sctp},local_port=\fIport\fR
dsfield=\fIval\fR[:\fIdsfield_mask\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
On a given link, the combinations above are mutually exclusive. An attempt to
create flows of different combinations will fail.
.SS "Restrictions"
.LP
There are individual flow restrictions and flow restrictions per zone.
.SS "Individual Flow Restrictions"
.LP
Restrictions on individual flows do not require knowledge of other flows that
have been added to the link.
.sp
.LP
An attribute can be listed only once for each flow. For example, the following
command is not valid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l vnic1 -a local_port=80,local_port=8080 httpflow\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fBtransport\fR and \fBlocal_port\fR:
.sp
.LP
TCP, UDP, or SCTP flows can be specified with a local port. An ICMP or ICMPv6
flow that specifies a port is not allowed. The following commands are valid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a transport=udp udpflow\fR
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a transport=tcp,local_port=80 \e
udp80flow\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following commands are not valid:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a local_port=25 flow25\fR
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l e1000g0 -a transport=icmpv6,local_port=16 \e
flow16\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Flow Restrictions Per Zone"
.LP
Within a zone, no two flows can have the same name. After adding a flow with
the link specified, the link will not be required for display, modification, or
deletion of the flow.
.SS "Flow Properties"
.LP
The following flow properties are supported. Note that the ability to set a
given property to a given value depends on the driver and hardware.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmaxbw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the full duplex bandwidth for the flow. The bandwidth is specified as an
integer with one of the scale suffixes(\fBK\fR, \fBM\fR, or \fBG\fR for Kbps,
Mbps, and Gbps). If no units are specified, the input value will be read as
Mbps. The default is no bandwidth limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpriority\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the relative priority for the flow. The value can be given as one of the
tokens \fBhigh\fR, \fBmedium\fR, or \fBlow\fR. The default is \fBmedium\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCreating a Policy Around a Mission-Critical Port
.sp
.LP
The command below creates a policy around inbound HTTPS traffic on an HTTPS
server so that HTTPS obtains dedicated NIC hardware and kernel TCP/IP
resources. The name specified, \fBhttps-1\fR, can be used later to modify or
delete the policy.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l bge0 -a transport=TCP,local_port=443 https-1\fR
# \fBflowadm show-flow -l bge0\fR
FLOW         LINK         IP ADDR                PROTO  PORT    DSFLD
https1       bge0         --                     tcp    443     --
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRModifying an Existing Policy to Add Bandwidth Resource Control
.sp
.LP
The following command modifies the \fBhttps-1\fR policy from the preceding
example. The command adds bandwidth control and give the policy a high
priority.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm set-flowprop -p maxbw=500M,priority=high https-1\fR
# \fBflowadm show-flow https-1\fR
FLOW         LINK         IP ADDR                PROTO  PORT    DSFLD
https1       bge0         --                     tcp    443     --

# \fBflowadm show-flowprop https-1\fR
FLOW        PROPERTY    VALUE     DEFAULT      POSSIBLE
https-1     maxbw       500       --           --
https-1     priority    HIGH      --          LOW,NORMAL,HIGH
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRLimiting the UDP Bandwidth Usage
.sp
.LP
The following command creates a policy for UDP protocol so that it cannot
consume more than 100Mbps of available bandwidth. The flow is named
\fBlimit-udp-1\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l bge0 -a transport=UDP -p maxbw=100M, \e
priority=low limit-udp-1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRShowing Flow Usage
.sp
.LP
Flow usage statistics can be stored using the extended accounting facility,
\fBacctadm\fR(1M).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBacctadm -e extended -f /var/log/net.log net\fR

# \fBacctadm net\fR
Network accounting: active
Network accounting file: /var/log/net.log
Tracked Network resources: extended
Untracked Network resources: none
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The historical data that was saved can be retrieved in summary form using the
\fBshow-usage\fR subcommand of \fBflowadm\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRSetting Policy, Making Use of \fBdsfield\fR Attribute
.sp
.LP
The following command sets a policy for EF PHB (DSCP value of 101110 from RFC
2598) with a bandwidth of 500 Mbps and a high priority. The \fBdsfield\fR value
for this flow will be \fB0x2e\fR (101110) with the \fBdsfield_mask\fR being
\fB0xfc\fR (because we want to ignore the 2 least significant bits).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm add-flow -l bge0 -a dsfield=0x2e:0xfc \e
-p maxbw=500M,priority=high efphb-flow\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Display summary information:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm show-usage -f /var/log/net.log\fR
FLOW      DURATION  IPACKETS RBYTES      OPACKETS OBYTES     BANDWIDTH
flowtcp   100       1031     546908      0        0          43.76 Kbps
flowudp   0         0        0           0        0           0.00 Mbps
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Display dates for which logging information is available:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm show-usage -d -f /var/log/net.log\fR
02/19/2008
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Display logging information for \fBflowtcp\fR starting at 02/19/2008, 10:38:46
and ending at 02/19/2008, 10:40:06:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm show-usage -s 02/19/2008,10:39:06 -e 02/19/2008,10:40:06 \e
-f /var/log/net.log flowtcp\fR
FLOW      TIME       IPACKETS RBYTES      OPACKETS OBYTES     BANDWIDTH
flowtcp   10:39:06   1        1546         4       6539       3.23 Kbps
flowtcp   10:39:26   2        3586         5       9922       5.40 Kbps
flowtcp   10:39:46   1        240          1       216       182.40 bps
flowtcp   10:40:06   0        0            0       0           0.00 bps
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Output the same information as above as a plotfile:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBflowadm show-usage -s 02/19/2008,10:39:06 -e 02/19/2008,10:40:06 \e
-p /home/plot/myplot -F gnuplot -f /var/log/net.log flowtcp\fR
# \fBTime tcp-flow\fR
10:39:06 3.23
10:39:26 5.40
10:39:46 0.18
10:40:06 0.00
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All actions were performed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBacctadm\fR(1M), \fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBprstat\fR(1M),
\fBroute\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
