'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH fmd 1M "17 Nov 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "System Administration Commands"
.SH NAME
fmd \- fault manager daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/fm/fmd/fmd\fR [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIopt\fR=\fIval\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIdir\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBfmd\fR is a daemon that runs in the background on each Solaris system.
\fBfmd\fR receives telemetry information relating to problems detected by the
system software, diagnoses these problems, and initiates proactive self-healing
activities such as disabling faulty components. When appropriate, the fault
manager also sends a message to the \fBsyslogd\fR(1M) service to notify an
administrator that a problem has been detected. The message directs
administrators to a knowledge article on Sun's web site,
http://www.sun.com/msg/, which explains more about the problem impact and
appropriate responses.
.sp
.LP
Each problem diagnosed by the fault manager is assigned a Universal Unique
Identifier (\fBUUID\fR). The \fBUUID\fR uniquely identifes this particular
problem across any set of systems. The \fBfmdump\fR(1M) utility can be used to
view the list of problems diagnosed by the fault manager, along with their
\fBUUID\fRs and knowledge article message identifiers. The \fBfmadm\fR(1M)
utility can be used to view the resources on the system believed to be faulty.
The \fBfmstat\fR(1M) utility can be used to report statistics kept by the fault
manager. The fault manager is started automatically when Solaris boots, so it
is not necessary to use the \fBfmd\fR command directly. Sun's web site explains
more about what capabilities are currently available for the fault manager on
Solaris.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Read the specified configuration \fIfile\fR prior to searching for any of the
default fault manager configuration files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIopt\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Set the specified fault manager option to the specified value. Fault manager
options are currently a Private interface; see \fBattributes\fR(5) for
information about Private interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Use the specified root directory for all pathnames evaluated by the fault
manager, instead of the default root (\fB/\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Print the fault manager's version to stdout and exit.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred which prevented the fault manager from initializing, such as
failure to open the telemetry transport.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Invalid command-line options were specified.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/etc/fm/fmd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Fault manager configuration directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/fm/fmd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Fault manager library directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/var/fm/fmd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
.rt  
Fault manager log directory
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBfmadm\fR(1M), \fBfmdump\fR(1M), \fBfmstat\fR(1M),
\fBsyslogd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
http://www.sun.com/msg/
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Fault Manager is managed by the service management facility, \fBsmf\fR(5),
under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 svc:/system/fmd:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The service's status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
Administrators should not disable the Fault Manager service.
