'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FSCK_PCFS 1M "Jan 28, 2000"
.SH NAME
fsck_pcfs \- file system consistency check and interactive repair
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfsck\fR \fB-F\fR pcfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfsck\fR \fB-F\fR pcfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfsck\fR utility audits and interactively repairs inconsistent conditions
on file systems. \fIspecial\fR represents the character special device on which
the file system resides, for example \fB/dev/rdiskette\fR. The character
special device, not the block special device, should be used.
.sp
.LP
In the case of correcting serious inconsistencies, by default, \fBfsck\fR asks
for confirmation before making a repair and waits for the operator to respond
either \fByes\fR or \fBno\fR. If the operator does not have write permission on
the file system, \fBfsck\fR defaults to a \fB-n\fR (no corrections) action. See
\fBfsck\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
Repairing some file system inconsistencies may result in loss of data. The
amount and severity of data loss may be determined from the diagnostic output.
.sp
.LP
When executed with the verify option (\fB\fR\fB-o\fR\fB v\fR), \fBfsck_pcfs\fR
automatically scans the entire file system to verify that all of its allocation
units are accessible. If it finds any units inaccessible, it updates the file
allocation table (\fBFAT\fR) appropriately. It also updates any effected
directory entries to reflect the problem. This directory update includes
truncating the file at the point in its allocation chain where the file data is
no longer accessible. Any remaining accessible allocation units become
orphaned.
.sp
.LP
Orphaned chains of accessible allocation units are, with the operator's
concurrence, linked back into the file system as files in the root directory.
These files are assigned names of the form file\fINNNN\fR.chk, where the
\fIN\fRs are digits in the integral range from \fB0\fR through \fB9\fR.
.sp
.LP
After successfully scanning and correcting any errors in the file system,
\fBfsck\fR displays a summary of information about the file system. This
summary includes the size of the file system in bytes, the number of bytes used
in directories and individual files, and the number of available allocation
units remaining in the file system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIgeneric_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The following generic options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Check but do not repair. This option checks that the file system is suitable
for mounting, returning the appropriate exit status. If the file system is
ready for mounting, \fBfsck\fR  displays a message such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pcfs fsck: sanity check:
\fB/dev/rdiskette\fR okay
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR | \fB-N\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
 Assume a no response to  all  questions  asked  by \fBfsck\fR; do not open the
file system for writing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Echo the expanded command line, but do not execute  the command. This option
may be used to verify and  to validate the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR | \fB-Y\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Assume a \fByes\fR response to all  questions  asked  by \fBfsck\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Specify \fBpcfs\fR file system specific options in a comma-separated list, in
any combination, with no intervening spaces.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBv\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Verify all allocation units are accessible prior to correcting inconsistencies
in the metadata.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBp\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Check and fix the file system non-interactively (\fBpreen\fR).  Exit
immediately if there is a problem requiring intervention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBw\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Check writable file systems only.
.RE

.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIspecial\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The device which contains the pcfs. The device name for a diskette is specified
as \fB/dev/rdiskette0\fR for the first diskette drive, or \fB/dev/rdiskette1\fR
for a second diskette drive. A hard disk device or high-capacity removable
device name much be qualified with a suffix to indicate the proper \fBFDISK\fR
partition.
.sp
For example, in the names: \fB/dev/rdsk/c0t0d0p0:c\fR and
\fB/dev/rdsk/c0t4d0s2:c\fR, the \fB:c\fR suffix indicates the first partition
on the disk contains the \fBpcfs\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfsck\fR(1M), \fBfstyp\fR(1M), \fBfdisk\fR(1M), \fBmkfs\fR(1M),
\fBmkfs_pcfs\fR(1M), \fBmountall\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpcfs\fR(7FS),
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The operating system buffers file system data. Running \fBfsck\fR on a mounted
file system can cause the operating system's buffers to become out of date with
respect to the disk. For this reason, the file system should be unmounted when
\fBfsck\fR is used. If this is not possible, care should be taken that the
system is quiescent and that it is rebooted immediately after \fBfsck\fR is
run. Quite often, however, this is not sufficient. A panic will probably occur
if running \fBfsck\fR on a file system modifies the file system.
