'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETDEVPOLICY 1M "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
getdevpolicy \- inspect the system's device policy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/getdevpolicy\fR [\fIdevice\fR\&.\|.\|.]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Without arguments, \fBgetdevpolicy\fR outputs the device policy in effect to
standard output.
.sp
.LP
With arguments, each argument is treated as a pathname to a device and the
device policy in effect for that specific device is printed preceded by the
supplied pathname.
.SH USAGE
.LP
 The device policy adds access restrictions over and above the file
permissions.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnon-zero\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below
.TE

.sp
.LP
The invocation is evolving. The output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBrem_drv\fR(1M), \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBdevfs\fR(7FS)
