'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETTABLE 1M "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
gettable \- get DoD Internet format host table from a host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/gettable\fR \fIhost\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBgettable\fR is a simple program used to obtain the DoD Internet host table
from a "hostname" server. The specified  \fIhost\fR is queried for the table.
The table is placed in the file \fBhosts.txt\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBgettable\fR operates by opening a \fBTCP\fR connection to the port indicated
in the service specification for "hostname". A request is then made for all
names and the resultant information is placed in the output file.
.sp
.LP
\fBgettable\fR is best used in conjunction with the \fBhtable\fR(1M) program
which converts the DoD Internet host table format to that used by the network
library lookup routines.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhtable\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5) Harrenstien, Ken, Mary Stahl, and
Elizabeth Feinler, \fI\fR \fBHOSTNAME\fR \fIServer\fR, \fBRFC\fR 953, Network
Information Center, \fBSRI\fR International, Menlo Park, California, October
1985.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Should allow requests for only part of the database.
