'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GROWFS 1M "Apr 20, 2009"
.SH NAME
growfs \- non-destructively expand a UFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/growfs\fR [\fB-M\fR \fImount-point\fR] [\fInewfs-options\fR]
     [\fIraw-device\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBgrowfs\fR non-destructively expands a mounted or unmounted UNIX file system
(UFS) to the size of the file system's slice(s).
.sp
.LP
Typically, disk space is expanded by first adding a slice to a metadevice, then
running the \fBgrowfs\fR command. When adding space to a mirror, you expand
each submirror before expanding the file system.
.sp
.LP
\fBgrowfs\fR will ``write-lock'' (see \fBlockfs\fR(1M)) a mounted file system
when expanding. The length of time the file system is write-locked can be
shortened by expanding the file system in stages. For instance, to expand a 1
Gbyte file system to 2 Gbytes, the file system can be grown in 16 Mbyte stages
using the \fB-s\fR option to specify the total size of the new file system at
each stage. The argument for \fB-s\fR is the number of sectors, and must be a
multiple of the cylinder size. Note: The file system cannot be grown if a
cylinder size of less than 2 is specified. Refer to the \fBnewfs\fR(1M) man
page for information on the options available when growing a file system.
.sp
.LP
\fBgrowfs\fR displays the same information as \fBmkfs\fR during the expansion
of the file system.
.sp
.LP
If \fBgrowfs\fR is aborted, recover any lost free space by unmounting the file
system and running the \fBfsck\fR command, or run the \fBgrowfs\fR command
again.
.sp
.LP
\fBNote:\fR If \fBgrowfs\fR is aborted and the file system is used before
\fBfsck\fR is run on it, UFS metadata might be left in an incomplete state,
with the result that the file system would be corrupted. In such a
circumstance, you would have to restore the file system from backups.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Root privileges are required for all of the following options.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fImount-point\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The file system to be expanded is mounted on \fImount-point\fR. File system
locking (\fBlockfs\fR) will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInewfs-options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The options are documented in the \fBnewfs\fR man page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIraw-device\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specifies the name of a raw metadevice or raw special device, residing in
\fB/dev/md/rdsk\fR, or \fB/dev/rdsk\fR, respectively, including the disk slice,
where you want the file system to be grown.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExpanding nonmetadevice slice for \fB/export\fR file system
.sp
.LP
The following example expands a nonmetadevice slice for the \fB/export\fR file
system. In this example, the existing slice, \fB/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s3\fR, is
converted to a metadevice so additional slices can be concatenated.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metainit -f d8 2 1 c1t0d0s3 1 c2t0d0s3
# umount /export
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRAssociate \fB/export\fR with new metadevice
.sp
.LP
Edit the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file to change the entry for \fB/export\fR to the
newly defined metadevice, \fBd8\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mount /export
# growfs -M /export /dev/md/rdsk/d8
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The first example starts by running the \fBmetainit\fR command with the
\fB-f\fR option to force the creation of a new concatenated metadevice
\fBd8\fR, which consists of the existing slice \fB/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s3\fR and a
new slice \fB/dev/dsk/c2t0d0s3\fR. Next, the file system on \fB/export\fR must
be unmounted. The \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file is edited to change the entry for
\fB/export\fR to the newly defined metadevice name, rather than the slice name.
After the file system is remounted, the \fBgrowfs\fR command is run to expand
the file system. The file system will span the entire metadevice when
\fBgrowfs\fR completes. The \fB-M\fR option enables the \fBgrowfs\fR command to
expand a mounted file system. During the expansion, write access for
\fB/export\fR is suspended until \fBgrowfs\fR unlocks the file system. Read
access is not affected, though access times are not kept when the lock is in
effect.

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDynamic Expansion of \fB/export\fR file system
.sp
.LP
The following example picks up from the previous one. Here, the \fB/export\fR
file system mounted on metadevice \fBd8\fR is dynamically expanded.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metattach d8 c0t1d0s2
# growfs -M /export /dev/md/rdsk/d8
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example begins by using the \fBmetattach\fR command to dynamically
concatenate a new slice, \fB/dev/dsk/c0t1d0s2\fR, to the end of an existing
metadevice, \fBd8\fR. Next, the \fBgrowfs\fR command specifies that the
mount-point is \fB/export\fR and that it is to be expanded onto the raw
metadevice \fB/dev/md/rdsk/d8\fR. The file system will span the entire
metadevice when \fBgrowfs\fR completes. During the expansion, write access for
\fB/export\fR is suspended until \fBgrowfs\fR unlocks the file system. Read
access is not affected, though access times are not kept when the lock is in
effect.

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRExpanding mounted file system to existing mirror
.sp
.LP
The following example expands a mounted file system \fB/files\fR, to an
existing mirror, \fBd80\fR, which contains two submirrors, \fBd9\fR and
\fBd10\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metattach d9 c0t2d0s5
# metattach d10 c0t3d0s5
# growfs -M /files /dev/md/rdsk/d80
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, the \fBmetattach\fR command dynamically concatenates the new
slices to each submirror. The \fBmetattach\fR command must be run for each
submirror. The mirror will automatically grow when the last submirror is
dynamically concatenated. The mirror will grow to the size of the smallest
submirror. The \fBgrowfs\fR command then expands the file system. The
\fBgrowfs\fR command specifies that the mount-point is \fB/files\fR and that it
is to be expanded onto the raw metadevice \fB/dev/md/rdsk/d80\fR. The file
system will span the entire mirror when the \fBgrowfs\fR command completes.
During the expansion, write access for the file system is suspended until
\fBgrowfs\fR unlocks the file system. Read access is not affected, though
access times are not kept when the lock is in effect.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfsck\fR(1M), \fBlockfs\fR(1M), \fBmkfs\fR(1M), \fBmetattach\fR(1M),
\fBnewfs\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Volume Manager Administration Guide\fR
.SH LIMITATIONS
.sp
.LP
Only UFS file systems (either mounted or unmounted) can be expanded using the
\fBgrowfs\fR command. Once a file system is expanded, it cannot be decreased in
size. The following conditions prevent you from expanding file systems: When
\fBacct\fR is activated and the accounting file is on the target device. When
C2 security is activated and the logging file is on the target file system.
When there is a local \fBswap\fR file in the target file system. When the file
system is root (\fB/\fR), \fB/usr\fR, or \fBswap\fR.
