'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH HALD 1M "Jul 2, 2008"
.SH NAME
hald \- daemon that supports hardware abstraction layer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/hal/hald\fR  [\fB--daemon\fR={\fByes\fR | \fBno\fR}]] [\fB--help\fR] [\fB--use-syslog\fR]
 [\fB--verbose\fR={\fByes\fR | \fBno\fR}] [\fB--version\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBhald\fR daemon supports the recognition of hardware changes for devices
that conform to the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) specification.
.sp
.LP
The enabling and disabling of \fBhald\fR can be performed through the service
management facility (SMF) (see \fBsmf\fR(5)). \fBhald\fR is managed using the
fault management resource identifier (FMRI) \fBsvc:/system/hal\fR. Options can
be specified as SMF properties. See EXAMPLES.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--daemon\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Run as a daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display usage information and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--use-syslog\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display debug messages to \fBsyslog\fR instead of \fBstderr\fR. Use this option
to record debug messages if HAL runs as daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--verbose\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display debug information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--version\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display version information and exit.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSpecifying a Property
.sp
.LP
The following \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) command specifies the \fB--verbose\fR option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsvccfg\fR
svc:> \fBselect hal\fR
svc:/system/hal> \fBlistprop hal/*\fR
hal/verbose          boolean  false
hal/use_syslog       boolean  false
svc:/system/hal> \fBsetprop hal/verbose=true\fR
svc:/system/hal> \fBexit\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/hal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
HAL-related files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/hal/fdi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Device information files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Volatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBhal\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
