'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH HOSTCONFIG 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
hostconfig \- configure a system's host parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/hostconfig\fR \fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR [\fB-d\fR] [ \fB-h\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBhostconfig\fR program uses a network protocol to acquire a machine's
\fBhost parameters\fR and set these parameters on the system.
.sp
.LP
The program selects which protocol to use based on the argument to the required
\fB-p\fR flag. Different protocols may set different host parameters.
Currently, only one protocol (\fBbootparams\fR) is defined.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Enable \fBdebug\fR output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI hostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Run the protocol as if this machine were named \fBhostname\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Echo the received \fBhostname\fR to \fBstdout\fR, rather than setting
\fBhostname\fR using the system name directly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fI interface\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Use only the named network interface to run the protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Run the network protocol, but do not set the acquired parameters into the
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Run \fBhostconfig\fR using \fIprotocol\fR. Currently, only one protocol
(\fBbootparams\fR) is available. This option is required.
.sp
Specifying the \fB-p\fR \fBbootparams\fR option uses the \fBwhoami\fR call of
the RPC \fBbootparams\fR protocol. This sets the system's  \fBhostname\fR,
\fBdomainname\fR, and default IP router parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Enable verbose output.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConfiguring Host Parameters with Verbose Output
.sp
.LP
The following command configures a machine's host parameters using the
\fBwhoami\fR call of the RPC \fBbootparams\fR protocol with a verbose output.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# hostconfig \fB-p\fR bootparams \fB-v\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying Host Parameters
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the parameters that would be set using the
\fBwhoami\fR call of the RPC \fBbootparams\fR protocol.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# hostconfig \fB-p\fR bootparams \fB-n\fR \fB-v\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRConfiguring Host Parameters Less the System Name
.sp
.LP
The following command configures a machine's host parameters, less the system
name, using  the \fBwhoami\fR call of the RPC \fBbootparams\fR protocol.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# hostconfig='hostconfig \fB-p\fR bootparams \fB-h\fR'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhostname\fR(1), \fBdomainname\fR(1M), \fBroute\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
