.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2020 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 2, 2020
.Dt HOTPLUG 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hotplug
.Nd configure hotplug connectors and ports
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl \&?
.Nm
.Cm list
.Op Fl lv
.Op Ar path
.Op Ar connection
.Nm
.Cm online
.Ar path
.Ar port
.Nm
.Cm offline
.Op Fl fq
.Ar path
.Ar port
.Nm
.Cm enable
.Ar path
.Ar connector
.Nm
.Cm disable
.Op Fl fq
.Ar path
.Ar connector
.Nm
.Cm poweron
.Ar path
.Ar connector
.Nm
.Cm poweroff
.Op Fl fq
.Ar path
.Ar connector
.Nm
.Cm set
.Fl o Ar options
.Ar path
.Ar connector
.Nm
.Cm get
.Fl o Ar options
.Ar path
.Ar connector
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to manage hotplug connections.
A connection can be a connector or port.
A hotplug connector is a representation of a physical point in the system where
components can be inserted or removed.
A hotplug port is a representation of a logical point in the system device tree
where the connection of a device to the system is managed.
.Pp
The
.Nm
command only supports hotplug operations on hotplug connectors for PCI Express
buses and PCI buses that implement the Standard PCI Hotplug feature.
Hotplug ports on PCI Express and PCI buses in systems with PCI Express fabrics
are also supported.
Additional buses may be supported in the future.
.Pp
The
.Nm
command operates on the following kinds of objects:
.Bl -tag -width "connection"
.It Cm path
Hotplug connectors and ports are integrated into the system device tree.
The names of connectors and ports are unique relative only to their bus
controller.
A device path is required to uniquely reference a connector or port.
.It Cm connector
If a hardware component supports being physically inserted or removed, then a
hotplug connector represents the location where this action may occur.
When a connector exists, it has a hierarchy of ports and device nodes that
depend upon it.
.It Cm port
All device nodes can be virtually hotplugged, even if their hardware does not
support physical hotplugging.
A hotplug port exists between a device node and its parent node in the system
device tree.
It represents the location where the device node and its dependents can be
managed.
.It Cm connection
A hotplug connection is a generic term to refer to either a hotplug connector or
a hotplug port.
.El
.Pp
Hotplug connectors and ports are managed according to a state model.
The
.Nm
command can list information about the hotplug connections in a system, or it
can initiate change of state operations on specific hotplug connections.
.Pp
Hotplug connectors can be in the following states:
.Bl -tag -width "present"
.It Cm empty
A component is not physically inserted in the connector.
.It Cm present
A component is physically inserted in the connector, but the component is
powered off.
The component is not in use.
.It Cm powered
A component is physically inserted in the connector, and the component is
powered on.
The component is disabled and is not in use.
.It Cm enabled
A component is physically inserted in the connector.
The component is powered on and has been probed and tested.
The component is enabled and devices that represent its functions can be used.
.El
.Pp
Hotplug ports can be in the following states:
.Bl -tag -width "port-present"
.It Cm port-empty
No device exists for the hotplug port.
.It Cm port-present
A device exists for the hotplug port, but the device has not been probed and it
has no attached device driver.
The device is not in use.
.It Cm offline
A device exists for the hotplug port, and the device has been probed.
A device driver is not attached, and the device is not in use.
.It Cm online
A device exists for the hotplug port, and its device driver is fully attached.
The device is in use.
.It Cm maintenance
A device exists for the hotplug port, and its device driver is fully attached.
The device is in use, but not fully operational.
A maintenance or fault management operation is affecting the device.
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
command can also access bus private properties for each hotplug connector.
The current values of bus private properties can be displayed.
New values for each bus private property can be set directly.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -diag
.It 0
Successful completion.
.It 1
Invalid command line options were specified.
.It 2
The specified path or connection does not exist.
.It 3
A fatal error occurred.
One or more error messages are displayed on standard error.
.It 4
The hotplug service is not available.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width 0n
.It Sy Example 1 No Showing All Hotplug Connections
The following command shows all hotplug connections:
.Bd -literal
# hotplug list -v
pci@0,0
        <pci.2,1> (ONLINE)
         pci108e,534a@2,1
                 [pci30] (EMPTY)
        <pci.e,0> (ONLINE)
         pci10de,5d@e
                 <pci.b,0> (ONLINE)
                 display@b
                 [NEM0] (ENABLED)
                 <pci.a,0> (ONLINE)
                 pci108e,534a@a,0
                         { Network interface nge0 }
                         { nge0: hosts IP addresses: 10.0.0.1 }
                 <pci.a,1> (MAINTENANCE)
                 pci108e,534a@a,1
                 [NEM1] (EMPTY)
         <pci.c,0> (OFFLINE)
                pci108e,534a@4
.Ed
.Pp
To show the full paths of hotplug connections and devices, enter the following
command:
.Bd -literal
# hotplug list -l
/pci@0,0 <pci.2,1> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci108e,534a@2,1 [pci30] (EMPTY)
/pci@0,0 pci.e,0> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e <pci.b,0> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e/display@b
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e [NEM0] (ENABLED)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e <pci.a,0> (ONLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e/pci108e,534a@a,0
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e <pci.a,1> (MAINTENANCE)
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e/pci108e,534a@a,0
/pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e [NEM1] (EMPTY)
/pci@0,0 pci.c,0> (OFFLINE)
/pci@0,0/pci108e,534a@4
.Ed
.It Sy Example 2 No Reporting Failure During State Change Operation
If a change of state operation fails, an explanation is displayed to describe
the failure.
An attempt to offline a hotplug port with dependent devices that are currently
in use by the system might fail as follows:
.Bd -literal
# hotplug offline /pci@0,0/pci10de,5d@e pci.a,0
ERROR: devices or resources are busy.
pci108e,534a@a,0:
    { Network interface nge0 }
    { nge0: hosts IP addresses: 10.0.0.1 }
    { Plumbed IP Address }
.Ed
.It Sy Example 3 No Displaying Bus-Specific Properties and Values
The following command displays all supported bus-specific properties and their
possible values:
.Bd -literal
# hotplug get -o help /pci@0,0 pci.2,1
power_led=<on|off|blink>
fault_led=<on|off|blink>
active_led=<on|off|blink>
attn_led=<on|off|blink>
card_type=<type description>
board_type=<type description>
.Ed
.It Sy Example 4 Displaying Bus-Specific Options
The following command displays the card type and the current state of the Power
LED of a PCI hotplug connector:
.Bd -literal
# hotplug get -o card_type,power_led /pci@0,0 pci.2,1
card_type=fibre
power_led=on
.Ed
.It Sy Example 5 No Setting a Bus-Specific Property
The following command turns on the attention LED of a PCI hotplug connector:
.Bd -literal
# hotplug set -o attn_led=on /pci@0,0 pci.2,1
.Ed
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
The following error message is displayed on systems that do not have any
supported I/O buses:
.Bd -literal
ERROR: there are no connections to display.
(See hotplug(1m) for more information.)
.Ed
.Pp
If this error message is seen, note that the system might still have other I/O
devices that support hotplugging, through the
.Xr cfgadm 1M
command instead of
.Nm .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cfgadm 1M ,
.Xr hotplugd 1M ,
.Xr getsubopt 3C ,
.Xr rcmscript 4 ,
.Xr attributes 5
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
service
.Po FMRI
.Pa svc:/system/hotplug
.Pc
must be enabled as a prerequisite for using the
.Nm
command.
See
.Xr hotplugd 1M .
.Pp
The authorization
.Pa solaris.hotplug.modify
must be granted in order to perform change-of-state operations.
Alternatively, the rights profile
.Qq Hotplug Management
can be granted, which includes that authorization.
.Pp
Verbose usage information is gathered from the RCM framework.
Its format and content is subject to change.
.Pp
The following bus specific properties are supported in PCI bus controllers:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm power_led No \&| Cm fault_led No \&| Cm attn_led No \&| Cm active_led
States of a specific LED of a slot.
The value could be
.Cm on , off ,
or
.Cm blink .
.Pp
They can all be used with
.Cm get
subcommand, but only property
.Cm attn_led
can be used with
.Cm set
subcommand.
.It Cm card_type No \&| Cm board_type
Type of a card or board of a slot.
.Pp
They can all be used with
.Cm get
subcommand, but neither can be used with
.Cm set
subcommand.
.El
