'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IDMAPD 1M "Jun 5, 2007"
.SH NAME
idmapd \- Native Identity Mapping service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/idmapd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBidmapd\fR daemon maps Windows Security Identifiers (SIDs) to POSIX
Identifiers (UIDs/GIDs) and conversely.
.sp
.LP
The \fBidmap\fR(1M) utility provides a front end to the \fBidmapd\fR daemon.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/idmap/idmap.db\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Database in which to store local name-based ID mapping rules. The contents of
the database are private. The database should not be accessed or modified
directly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/run/idmap/idmap.db\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Database in which to cache ID mappings that are generated by ephemeral ID
mapping and by name-based mapping. The contents of the database are private.
The database should not be accessed or modified directly.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Interface stability for these components is as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc:/system/idmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Committed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/idmap/idmap.db\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Project Private
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/run/idmap/idmap.db\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Project Private
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBidmap\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M),
\fBdefaultdomain\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBidmapd\fR service is managed by the service management facility (SMF).
The service identifier for the \fBidmapd\fR service is \fBsvc:/system/idmap\fR.
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsvcadm\fR command to perform administrative actions on this service,
such as enabling, disabling, or restarting the service. These actions require
the \fBsolaris.smf.manage.idmap\fR authorization. Use the \fBsvcs\fR command to
query the service's status.
.sp
.LP
The functionality of this daemon might change in a future release of the
Solaris operating system.
