'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IF_MPADM 1M "Sep 02, 2015"
.SH NAME
if_mpadm \- administer interfaces in an IP multipathing group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBif_mpadm\fR \fB-d\fR | \fB-r\fR \fIifname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBif_mpadm\fR utility administers IP interfaces that are part of an IP
Multipathing (IPMP) group. Currently, administration is limited to offlining IP
interfaces and undoing previous offline operations.
.LP
When an IP interface is taken offline, all IP data traffic that was flowing
over the IP interface is moved to another IP interface in the IPMP group. In
addition, all \fBUP\fR IP addresses hosted on the IP interface are brought
down, causing \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M) to stop probe-based failure detection on the
IP interface. As a result, an offline IP interface will not be used for any
inbound or outbound IP traffic. Only IP interfaces that are in an IPMP group
may be brought offline. If the IP interface is the last functioning interface
in the IPMP group, the offline operation will fail.
.LP
When an offline operation is undone, any IP addresses hosted on that IP
interface are brought \fBUP\fR and will be considered by \fBin.mpathd\fR for
probe-based failure detection. In addition, provided the IP interface is
otherwise active (see \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M)), it will again be used to send and
receive IP data traffic for the IPMP group. Note that not all offline
operations can be undone. For instance, \fBin.mpathd\fR may have offlined an IP
interface because its hardware address was not unique within its IPMP group.
The \fBipmpstat\fR utility can be used to determine why an IP interface is
offline, identify which IP interfaces in a group are being used for inbound and
outbound IP traffic, and more; see \fBipmpstat\fR(1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The \fBif_mpadm\fR utility supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIifname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Offline the IP interface specified by \fIifname\fR. If \fIifname\fR is not in
an IPMP group, or the offline would cause the IPMP group to lose network
connectivity, the operation will fail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIifname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Undo a previous offline of the IP interface specified by \fIifname\fR. If
\fIifname\fR is not offline, the operation will fail.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fROfflining an IP Interface
.LP
The following command offlines the IP interface \fBunder0\fR, causing any IP
packets that were being sent and received through it to be handled by another
IP interface in its group.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBif_mpadm -d under0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUndoing a Previous Offline Operation
.LP
Use the following command to undo the operation in the previous example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBif_mpadm -r under0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M), \fBipmpstat\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
cannot offline: no other functioning interfaces are in its IPMP group.
.RS +4
\fBDescription: \fR
.sp
.LP
This message means that offlining the IP interface would leave the IPMP group
without network connectivity.
.RE

.sp
.LP
cannot offline: not a physical interface or not in an IPMP group
.RS +4
\fBDescription: \fR
.sp
.LP
This means that the IP interface is not an underlying interface in an IPMP
group, and therefore is not eligible to be offlined.
.RE

