'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2012, Darren Reed. All rights reserved 
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH IFCONFIG 1M "July 23, 2012"
.SH NAME
ifconfig \- configure network interface parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBifconfig\fR \fIinterface\fR [\fIaddress_family\fR] [\fIaddress\fR [\fI/prefix_length\fR]
 [\fIdest_address\fR]] [\fBaddif\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fI/prefix_length\fR]]
 [\fBremoveif\fR \fIaddress\fR [\fI/prefix_length\fR]] [\fBarp\fR | \fB-arp\fR]
 [\fBauth_algs\fR \fIauthentication algorithm\fR] [\fBencr_algs\fR \fIencryption algorithm\fR]
 [\fBencr_auth_algs\fR \fIauthentication algorithm\fR] [\fBauto-revarp\fR]
 [\fBbroadcast\fR \fIaddress\fR] [\fBdeprecated\fR | \fB-deprecated\fR]
 [\fBpreferred\fR | \fB-preferred\fR] [\fBdestination\fR \fIdest_address\fR]
 [ether [\fIaddress\fR]] [\fBfailover\fR | \fB-failover\fR] [\fBgroup\fR
 [\fIname\fR | ""\fB\fR]] [\fBindex\fR \fIif_index\fR] [ipmp] [\fBmetric\fR \fIn\fR] [modlist]
 [modinsert \fImod_name@pos\fR] [modremove \fImod_name@pos\fR]
 [\fBmtu\fR \fIn\fR] [\fBnetmask\fR \fImask\fR] [\fBplumb\fR] [\fBunplumb\fR] [\fBprivate\fR
 | \fB-private\fR] [\fBnud\fR | \fB-nud\fR] [\fBset\fR [\fIaddress\fR] [\fI/netmask\fR]]
 [\fBstandby\fR | \fB-standby\fR] [\fBsubnet\fR \fIsubnet_address\fR] [\fBtdst\fR
 \fItunnel_dest_address\fR] [\fBtoken\fR \fIaddress\fR/\fIprefix_length\fR]
 [\fBtsrc\fR \fItunnel_src_address\fR] [\fBtrailers\fR | \fB-trailers\fR]
 [\fBup\fR] [\fBdown\fR] [\fBusesrc\fR [\fIname\fR | none]] [\fBxmit\fR | \fB-xmit\fR]
 [\fBencaplimit\fR \fIn\fR | \fB-encaplimit\fR] [\fBthoplimit\fR \fIn\fR] [\fBrouter\fR
 | \fB-router\fR] [zone \fIzonename\fR | \fB-zone\fR | \fB-all-zones\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBifconfig\fR [\fIaddress_family\fR] \fIinterface\fR {\fBauto-dhcp\fR | \fBdhcp\fR} [\fBprimary\fR]
 [\fBwait\fR \fIseconds\fR] \fBdrop\fR | \fBextend\fR | \fBinform\fR | \fBping\fR
 | \fBrelease\fR | \fBstart\fR | \fBstatus\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The command \fBifconfig\fR is used to assign an address to a network interface
and to configure network interface parameters. The \fBifconfig\fR command must
be used at boot time to define the network address of each interface present on
a machine; it may also be used at a later time to redefine an interface's
address or other operating parameters. If no option is specified,
\fBifconfig\fR displays the current configuration for a network interface. If
an address family is specified, \fBifconfig\fR reports only the details
specific to that address family. Only privileged users may modify the
configuration of a network interface. Options appearing within braces
(\fB{\|}\fR) indicate that one of the options must be specified.
.SS Network Interface Observability
.sp
.LP
Network interface observability with \fBifconfig\fR is limited to those
network interfaces that have been prepared for use with the IP
protocol suite. The preferred method for configuring a network
interface for use with TCP/IP is with \fBipadm\fR and alternatively
with the use of the \fBplumb\fR option as documented below. Network
interfaces that have not been configured for use with the IP
protocol suite can only be observed by using the \fBdladm\fR command.
.SS DHCP Configuration
.sp
.LP
The forms of \fBifconfig\fR that use the \fBauto-dhcp\fR or \fBdhcp\fR
arguments are used to control the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
("\fBDHCP\fR") configuration of the interface. In this mode, \fBifconfig\fR is
used to control operation of \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M), the \fBDHCP\fR client daemon.
Once an interface is placed under \fBDHCP\fR control by using the \fBstart\fR
operand, \fBifconfig\fR should not, in normal operation, be used to modify the
address or characteristics of the interface. If the address of an interface
under \fBDHCP\fR is changed, \fBdhcpagent\fR will remove the interface from its
control.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
When the \fBifconfig\fR command is executed without any options
its behavior is the same as when the \fB\-a\fR option is supplied
with no other options or arguments.
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaddif\fR \fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create the next unused logical interface on the specified physical interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBall-zones\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Make the interface available to every shared-IP zone on the system. The
appropriate zone to which to deliver data is determined using the
\fBtnzonecfg\fR database. This option is available only if the system is
configured with the Solaris Trusted Extensions feature.
.sp
The \fBtnzonecfg\fR database is described in the \fBtnzonecfg(4)\fR man page,
which is part of the \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Reference Manual\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBanycast\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the logical interface as an anycast address by setting the \fBANYCAST\fR
flag. See "INTERFACE FLAGS," below, for more information on anycast.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-anycast\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the logical interface as not an anycast address by clearing the
\fBANYCAST\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBarp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable the use of the Address Resolution Protocol ("\fBARP\fR") in mapping
between network level addresses and link level addresses (default). This is
currently implemented for mapping between IPv4 addresses and MAC addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-arp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the use of the \fBARP\fR on a physical interface. ARP cannot be
disabled on an IPMP IP interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBauth_algs\fR \fIauthentication algorithm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For a tunnel, enable IPsec \fBAH\fR with the authentication algorithm
specified. The algorithm can be either a number or an algorithm name, including
\fIany\fR to express no preference in algorithm. All IPsec tunnel properties
must be specified on the same command line. To disable tunnel security, specify
an \fBauth_alg\fR of \fBnone\fR.
.sp
It is now preferable to use the \fBipsecconf\fR(1M) command when configuring a
tunnel's security properties. If \fBipsecconf\fR was used to set a tunnel's
security properties, this keyword will not affect the tunnel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBauto-dhcp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use DHCP to automatically acquire an address for this interface. This option
has a completely equivalent alias called \fBdhcp\fR.
.sp
For IPv6, the interface specified must be the zeroth logical interface (the
physical interface name), which has the link-local address.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBprimary\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defines the interface as the \fBprimary\fR. The interface is defined as the
preferred one for the delivery of client-wide configuration data. Only one
interface can be the primary at any given time. If another interface is
subsequently selected as the primary, it replaces the previous one. Nominating
an interface as the primary one will not have much significance once the client
work station has booted, as many applications will already have started and
been configured with data read from the previous primary interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwait \fIseconds\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBifconfig\fR command will wait until the operation either completes or
for the interval specified, whichever is the sooner. If no wait interval is
given, and the operation is one that cannot complete immediately,
\fBifconfig\fR will wait 30 seconds for the requested operation to complete.
The symbolic value \fBforever\fR may be used as well, with obvious meaning.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdrop\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the specified interface from \fBDHCP\fR control without notifying the
DHCP server, and record the current lease for later use. Additionally, for
IPv4, set the IP address to zero. For IPv6, unplumb all logical interfaces
plumbed by \fBdhcpagent\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBextend\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempt to extend the lease on the interface's IP address. This is not
required, as the agent will automatically extend the lease well before it
expires.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinform\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Obtain network configuration parameters from \fBDHCP\fR without obtaining a
lease on \fBIP\fR addresses. This is useful in situations where an \fBIP\fR
address is obtained through mechanisms other than \fBDHCP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBping\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check whether the interface given is under \fBDHCP\fR control, which means that
the interface is managed by the \fBDHCP\fR agent and is working properly. An
exit status of \fB0\fR means success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBrelease\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Relinquish the IP addresses on the interface by notifying the server and
discard the current lease. For IPv4, set the IP address to zero. For IPv6, all
logical interfaces plumbed by \fBdhcpagent\fR are unplumbed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBstart\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Start \fBDHCP\fR on the interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBstatus\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the \fBDHCP\fR configuration status of the interface.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBauto-revarp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP) to automatically acquire an
address for this interface. This will fail if the interface does not support
RARP; for example, IPoIB (IP over InfiniBand), and on IPv6 interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbroadcast\fR \fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For IPv4 only. Specify the address to use to represent broadcasts to the
network. The default broadcast address is the address with a host part of all
\fB1\fR's. A "\fB+\fR" (plus sign) given for the broadcast value causes the
broadcast address to be reset to a default appropriate for the (possibly new)
address and netmask. The arguments of \fBifconfig\fR are interpreted left to
right. Therefore
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig -a netmask + broadcast +
.fi
.in -2
.sp

and
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig -a broadcast + netmask +
.fi
.in -2
.sp

may result in different values being assigned for the broadcast addresses of
the interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdeprecated\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the logical interface as deprecated. An address associated with a
deprecated interface will not be used as source address for outbound packets
unless either there are no other addresses available on the interface or the
application has bound to this address explicitly. The status display shows
\fBDEPRECATED\fR as part of flags. See  for information on the flags supported
by \fBifconfig\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-deprecated\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a logical interface as not deprecated. An address associated with such an
interface could be used as a source address for outbound packets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpreferred\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the logical interface as preferred. This option is only valid for IPv6
addresses. Addresses assigned to preferred logical interfaces are preferred as
source addresses over all other addresses configured on the system, unless the
address is of an inappropriate scope relative to the destination address.
Preferred addresses are used as source addresses regardless of which physical
interface they are assigned to. For example, you can configure a preferred
source address on the loopback interface and advertise reachability of this
address by using a routing protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-preferred\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the logical interface as not preferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdestination\fR \fIdest_address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the destination address for a point-to point interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdhcp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option is an alias for option \fBauto-dhcp\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdown\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mark a logical interface as "down". (That is, turn off the \fBIFF_UP\fR bit.)
When a logical interface is marked "down," the system does not attempt to use
the address assigned to that interface as a source address for outbound packets
and will not recognize inbound packets destined to that address as being
addressed to this host. Additionally, when all logical interfaces on a given
physical interface are "down," the physical interface itself is disabled.
.sp
When a logical interface is down, all routes that specify that interface as the
output (using the \fB-ifp\fR option in the \fBroute\fR(1M) command or
\fBRTA_IFP\fR in a \fBroute\fR(7P) socket) are removed from the forwarding
table. Routes marked with \fBRTF_STATIC\fR are returned to the table if the
interface is brought back up, while routes not marked with \fBRTF_STATIC\fR are
simply deleted.
.sp
When all logical interfaces that could possibly be used to reach a particular
gateway address are brought down (specified without the interface option as in
the previous paragraph), the affected gateway routes are treated as though they
had the \fBRTF_BLACKHOLE\fR flag set. All matching packets are discarded
because the gateway is unreachable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBencaplimit\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the tunnel encapsulation limit for the interface to n. This option applies
to IPv4-in-IPv6 and IPv6-in-IPv6 tunnels only, and it simply modifies the
\fBencaplimit\fR link property of the underlying IPv6 tunnel link (see
\fBdladm\fR(1M)). The tunnel encapsulation limit controls how many more tunnels
a packet can enter before it leaves any tunnel, that is, the tunnel nesting
level.
.sp
This option is obsolete, superseded by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) \fBencaplimit\fR
link property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-encaplimit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable generation of the tunnel encapsulation limit. This option applies only
to IPv4-in-IPv6 and IPv6-in-IPv6 tunnels. This simply sets the \fBencaplimit\fR
link property of the underlying IPv6 tunnel link to 0 (see \fBdladm\fR(1M)
\fBencaplimit\fR).
.sp
This option is obsolete, superseded by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) \fBencaplimit\fR
link property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBencr_auth_algs\fR \fIauthentication algorithm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For a tunnel, enable IPsec \fBESP\fR with the authentication algorithm
specified. It can be either a number or an algorithm name, including \fBany\fR
or \fBnone\fR, to indicate no algorithm preference. If an \fBESP\fR encryption
algorithm is specified but the authentication algorithm is not, the default
value for the \fBESP\fR authentication algorithm will be \fBany\fR.
.sp
It is now preferable to use the \fBipsecconf\fR(1M) command when configuring a
tunnel's security properties. If \fBipsecconf\fR was used to set a tunnel's
security properties, this keyword will not affect the tunnel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBencr_algs\fR \fIencryption algorithm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For a tunnel, enable IPsec \fBESP\fR with the encryption algorithm specified.
It can be either a number or an algorithm name. Note that all IPsec tunnel
properties must be specified on the same command line. To disable tunnel
security, specify the value of \fBencr_alg\fR as \fBnone\fR. If an \fBESP\fR
authentication algorithm is specified, but the encryption algorithm is not, the
default value for the \fBESP\fR encryption will be \fBnull\fR.
.sp
It is now preferable to use the \fBipsecconf\fR(1M) command when configuring a
tunnel's security properties. If \fBipsecconf\fR was used to set a tunnel's
security properties, this keyword will not affect the tunnel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBether\fR [ \fIaddress\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If no address is given and the user is root or has sufficient privileges to
open the underlying datalink, then display the current Ethernet address
information.
.sp
Otherwise, if the user is root or has sufficient privileges, set the Ethernet
address of the interfaces to \fIaddress\fR. The address is an Ethernet address
represented as \fIx:x:x:x:x:x\fR where \fIx\fR is a hexadecimal number between
0 and FF. Similarly, for the IPoIB (IP over InfiniBand) interfaces, the address
will be 20 bytes of colon-separated hex numbers between \fB0\fR and \fBFF\fR.
.sp
Some, though not all, Ethernet interface cards have their own addresses. To use
cards that do not have their own addresses, refer to section 3.2.3(4) of the
IEEE 802.3 specification for a definition of the locally administered address
space. Note that all IP interfaces in an IPMP group must have unique hardware
addresses; see \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-failover\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set \fBNOFAILOVER\fR on the logical interface. This makes the associated
address available for use by \fBin.mpathd\fR to perform probe-based failure
detection for the associated physical IP interface. As a side effect,
\fBDEPRECATED\fR will also be set on the logical interface. This operation is
not permitted on an IPMP IP interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfailover\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Clear \fBNOFAILOVER\fR on the logical interface. This is the default. These
logical interfaces are subject to migration when brought up (see \fBIP
MULTIPATHING GROUPS\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgroup\fR [ \fIname\fR |\fB""\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When applied to a physical interface, it places the interface into the named
group. If the group does not exist, it will be created, along with one or more
IPMP IP interfaces (for IPv4, IPv6, or both). Any \fBUP\fR addresses that are
not also marked \fBNOFAILOVER\fR are subject to migration to the IPMP IP
interface (see \fBIP MULTIPATHING GROUPS\fR). Specifying a group name of
\fB""\fR removes the physical IP interface from the group.
.sp
When applied to a physical IPMP IP interface, it renames the IPMP group to have
the new name. If the name already exists, or a name of \fB""\fR is specified,
it fails. Renaming IPMP groups is discouraged. Instead, the IPMP IP interface
should be given a meaningful name when it is created by means of the \fBipmp\fR
subcommand, which the system will also use as the IPMP group name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBindex\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the interface index for the interface. The value of \fIn\fR must be an
interface index (\fIif_index\fR) that is not used on another interface.
\fIif_index\fR will be a non-zero positive number that uniquely identifies the
network interface on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBipmp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create an IPMP IP interface with the specified name. An interface must be
separately created for use by IPv4 and IPv6. The \fIaddress_family\fR parameter
controls whether the command applies to IPv4 or IPv6 (IPv4 if unspecified). All
IPMP IP interfaces have the \fBIPMP\fR flag set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmetric\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the routing metric of the interface to \fIn\fR; if no value is specified,
the default is \fB0\fR. The routing metric is used by the routing protocol.
Higher metrics have the effect of making a route less favorable. Metrics are
counted as addition hops to the destination network or host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmodinsert\fR \fImod_name@pos\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Insert a module with name \fImod_name\fR to the stream of the device at
position \fIpos\fR. The position is relative to the stream head. Position
\fB0\fR means directly under stream head.
.sp
Based upon the example in the \fBmodlist\fR option, use the following command
to insert a module with name \fBipqos\fR under the \fBip\fR module and above
the firewall module:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig eri0 modinsert ipqos@2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

A subsequent listing of all the modules in the stream of the device follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig eri0 modlist
0 arp
1 ip
2 ipqos
3 firewall
4 eri
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmodlist\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all the modules in the stream of the device.
.sp
The following example lists all the modules in the stream of the device:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig eri0 modlist
0 arp
1 ip
2 firewall
4 eri
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmodremove\fR \fImod_name@pos\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove a module with name \fImod_name\fR from the stream of the device at
position \fIpos\fR. The position is relative to the stream head.
.sp
Based upon the example in the \fBmodinsert\fR option, use the following command
to remove the firewall module from the stream after inserting the \fBipqos\fR
module:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig eri0 modremove firewall@3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

A subsequent listing of all the modules in the stream of the device follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ifconfig eri0 modlist
0 arp
1 ip
2 ipqos
3 eri
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Note that the core IP stack modules, for example, \fBip\fR and \fBtun\fR
modules, cannot be removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmtu\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the maximum transmission unit of the interface to \fIn\fR. For many types
of networks, the \fBmtu\fR has an upper limit, for example, \fB1500\fR for
Ethernet. This option sets the \fBFIXEDMTU\fR flag on the affected interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnetmask\fR \fImask\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For IPv4 only. Specify how much of the address to reserve for subdividing
networks into subnetworks. The mask includes the network part of the local
address and the subnet part, which is taken from the host field of the address.
The mask contains 1's for the bit positions in the 32-bit address which are to
be used for the network and subnet parts, and 0's for the host part. The mask
should contain at least the standard network portion, and the subnet field
should be contiguous with the network portion. The mask can be specified in one
of four ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
with a single hexadecimal number with a leading 0x,
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
with a dot-notation address,
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
with a "\fB+\fR" (plus sign) address, or
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
with a pseudo host name/pseudo network name found in the network database
\fBnetworks\fR(4).
.RE
If a "\fB+\fR" (plus sign) is given for the netmask value, the mask is looked
up in the \fBnetmasks\fR(4) database. This lookup finds the longest matching
netmask in the database by starting with the interface's IPv4 address as the
key and iteratively masking off more and more low order bits of the address.
This iterative lookup ensures that the \fBnetmasks\fR(4) database can be used
to specify the netmasks when variable length subnetmasks are used within a
network number.
.sp
If a pseudo host name/pseudo network name is supplied as the netmask value,
netmask data may be located in the \fBhosts\fR or \fBnetworks\fR database.
Names are looked up by first using \fBgethostbyname\fR(3NSL). If not found
there, the names are looked up in \fBgetnetbyname\fR(3SOCKET). These interfaces
may in turn use \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) to determine what data store(s) to use
to fetch the actual value.
.sp
For both \fBinet\fR and \fBinet6\fR, the same information conveyed by
\fImask\fR can be specified as a \fIprefix_length\fR attached to the
\fIaddress\fR parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnud\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the neighbor unreachability detection mechanism on a point-to-point
physical interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-nud\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the neighbor unreachability detection mechanism on a point-to-point
physical interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplumb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For a physical IP interface, open the datalink associated with the physical
interface name and set up the plumbing needed for IP to use the datalink. When
used with a logical interface name, this command is used to create a specific
named logical interface on an existing physical IP interface.
.sp
An interface must be separately plumbed for IPv4 and IPv6 according to the
\fIaddress_family\fR parameter (IPv4 if unspecified). Before an interface has
been plumbed, it will not be shown by \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR.
.sp
Note that IPMP IP interfaces are not tied to a specific datalink and are
instead created with the \fBipmp\fR subcommand.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprivate\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Tells the \fBin.routed\fR routing daemon that a specified logical interface
should not be advertised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-private\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify unadvertised interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBremoveif\fR \fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the logical interface on the physical interface specified that matches
the \fIaddress\fR specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrouter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable IP forwarding on the interface. When enabled, the interface is marked
\fBROUTER\fR, and IP packets can be forwarded to and from the interface.
Enabling \fBROUTER\fR on any IP interface in an IPMP group enables it on all IP
interfaces in that IPMP group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-router\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable IP forwarding on the interface. IP packets are not forwarded to and
from the interface. Disabling \fBROUTER\fR on any IP interface in an IPMP group
disables it on all IP interfaces in that IPMP group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBset\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the \fIaddress\fR, \fIprefix_length\fR or both, for a logical interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstandby\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mark the physical IP interface as a \fBSTANDBY\fR interface. If an interface is
marked \fBSTANDBY\fR and is part of an IPMP group, the interface will not be
used for data traffic unless another interface in the IPMP group becomes
unusable. When a \fBSTANDBY\fR interface is functional but not being used for
data traffic, it will also be marked \fBINACTIVE\fR. This operation is not
permitted on an IPMP IP interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-standby\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Clear \fBSTANDBY\fR on the interface. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsubnet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the subnet \fIaddress\fR for an interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtdst\fR \fItunnel_dest_address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the destination address of a tunnel. The address should not be the same as
the \fBdest_address\fR of the tunnel, because no packets leave the system over
such a tunnel.
.sp
This option is obsolete, superseded by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) \fBcreate-iptun\fR
and \fBmodify-iptun\fR subcommands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBthoplimit\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the hop limit for a tunnel interface. The hop limit value is used as the
\fBTTL\fR in the IPv4 header for the IPv6-in-IPv4 and IPv4-in-IPv4 tunnels. For
IPv6-in-IPv6 and IPv4-in-IPv6 tunnels, the hop limit value is used as the hop
limit in the IPv6 header. This option simply modifies the \fBhoplimit\fR link
property of the underlying IP tunnel link (see \fBdladm\fR(1M)).
.sp
This option is obsolete, superseded by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) \fBhoplimit\fR link
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtoken\fR \fIaddress\fR/\fIprefix_length\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the IPv6 token of an interface to be used for address autoconfiguration.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 inet6 token ::1/64\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtrailers\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This flag previously caused a nonstandard encapsulation of IPv4 packets on
certain link levels. Drivers supplied with this release no longer use this
flag. It is provided for compatibility, but is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-trailers\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the use of a "trailer" link level encapsulation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtsrc\fR \fItunnel_src_address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the source address of a tunnel. This is the source address on an outer
encapsulating \fBIP\fR header. It must be an address of another interface
already configured using \fBifconfig\fR.
.sp
This option is obsolete, superseded by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) \fBcreate-iptun\fR
and \fBmodify-iptun\fR subcommands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunplumb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For a physical or IPMP interface, remove all associated logical IP interfaces
and tear down any plumbing needed for IP to use the interface. For an IPMP IP
interface, this command will fail if the group is not empty. For a logical
interface, the logical interface is removed.
.sp
An interface must be separately unplumbed for IPv4 and IPv6 according to the
\fIaddress_family\fR parameter (IPv4 if unspecified). Upon success, the
interface name will no longer appear in the output of \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBup\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mark a logical interface \fBUP\fR. As a result, the IP module will accept
packets destined to the associated address (unless the address is zero), along
with any associated multicast and broadcast IP addresses. Similarly, the IP
module will allow packets to be sent with the associated address as a source
address. At least one logical interface must be \fBUP\fR for the associated
physical interface to send or receive packets
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBusesrc\fR [ \fIname\fR | \fBnone\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a physical interface to be used for source address selection. If the
keyword \fBnone\fR is used, then any previous selection is cleared.
.sp
When an application does not choose a non-zero source address using
\fBbind\fR(3SOCKET), the system will select an appropriate source address based
on the outbound interface and the address selection rules (see
\fBipaddrsel\fR(1M)).
.sp
When \fBusesrc\fR is specified and the specified interface is selected in the
forwarding table for output, the system looks first to the specified physical
interface and its associated logical interfaces when selecting a source
address. If no usable address is listed in the forwarding table, the ordinary
selection rules apply. For example, if you enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBifconfig eri0 usesrc vni0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&...and \fBvni0\fR has address 10.0.0.1 assigned to it, the system will prefer
10.0.0.1 as the source address for any packets originated by local connections
that are sent through \fBeri0\fR. Further examples are provided in the
\fBEXAMPLES\fR section.
.sp
While you can specify any physical interface (or even loopback), be aware that
you can also specify the virtual IP interface (see \fBvni\fR(7D)). The virtual
IP interface is not associated with any physical hardware and is thus immune to
hardware failures. You can specify any number of physical interfaces to use the
source address hosted on a single virtual interface. This simplifies the
configuration of routing-based multipathing. If one of the physical interfaces
were to fail, communication would continue through one of the remaining,
functioning physical interfaces. This scenario assumes that the reachability of
the address hosted on the virtual interface is advertised in some manner, for
example, through a routing protocol.
.sp
Because the \fBifconfig\fR \fBpreferred\fR option is applied to all interfaces,
it is coarser-grained than the \fBusesrc\fR option. It will be overridden by
\fBusesrc\fR and \fBsetsrc\fR (route subcommand), in that order.
.sp
IPMP and the \fBusesrc\fR option are mutually exclusive. That is, if an
interface is part of an IPMP group or marked \fBSTANDBY\fR, then it cannot be
specified by means of \fBusesrc\fR, and vice-versa.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxmit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable a logical interface to transmit packets. This is the default behavior
when the logical interface is up.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-xmit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable transmission of packets on an interface. The interface will continue to
receive packets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBzone\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Place the logical interface in zone \fIzonename\fR. The named zone must be
active in the kernel in the ready or running state. The interface is unplumbed
when the zone is halted or rebooted. The zone must be configure to be an
shared-IP zone. \fBzonecfg\fR(1M) is used to assign network interface names to
exclusive-IP zones.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-zone\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Place IP interface in the global zone. This is the default.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The \fIinterface\fR operand, as well as address parameters that affect it, are
described below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinterface\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A string of one of the following forms:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIname physical-unit\fR, for example, \fBeri0\fR or \fBce1\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIname physical-unit\fR\fB:\fR\fIlogical-unit\fR, for example, \fBeri0:1\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBip.tun\fR\fIN\fR, \fBip6.tun\fR\fIN\fR, or \fBip6to4.tun\fR\fIN\fR for
implicit IP tunnel links
.RE
If the interface name starts with a dash (-), it is interpreted as a set of
options which specify a set of interfaces. In such a case, \fB-a\fR must be
part of the options and any of the additional options below can be added in any
order. If one of these interface names is given, the commands following it are
applied to all of the interfaces that match.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the command to all interfaces of the specified address family. If no
address family is supplied, either on the command line or by means of
\fB/etc/default/inet_type\fR, then all address families will be selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the commands to all "down" interfaces in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the commands to all interfaces not under \fBDHCP\fR (Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol) control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the commands to all "up" interfaces in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the commands to all interfaces in the user's zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the commands to all IPv4 interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-6\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Apply the commands to all IPv6 interfaces.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaddress_family\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The address family is specified by the \fIaddress_family\fR parameter. The
\fBifconfig\fR command currently supports the following families: \fBinet\fR
and \fBinet6\fR. If no address family is specified, the default is \fBinet\fR.
.sp
\fBifconfig\fR honors the \fBDEFAULT_IP\fR setting in the
\fB/etc/default/inet_type\fR file when it displays interface information . If
\fBDEFAULT_IP\fR is set to \fBIP_VERSION4\fR, then \fBifconfig\fR will omit
information that relates to IPv6 interfaces. However, when you explicitly
specify an address family (\fBinet\fR or \fBinet6\fR) on the \fBifconfig\fR
command line, the command line overrides the \fBDEFAULT_IP\fR settings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For the IPv4 family (\fBinet\fR), the \fIaddress\fR is either a host name
present in the host name data base (see \fBhosts\fR(4)) or in the Network
Information Service (NIS) map \fBhosts\fR, or an IPv4 address expressed in the
Internet standard "dot notation".
.sp
For the IPv6 family (\fBinet6\fR), the \fIaddress\fR is either a host name
present in the host name data base (see \fBhosts\fR(4)) or in the Network
Information Service (\fBNIS\fR) map \fBipnode\fR, or an IPv6 address expressed
in the Internet standard colon-separated hexadecimal format represented as
\fIx:x:x:x:x:x:x:x\fR where \fIx\fR is a hexadecimal number between \fB0\fR and
\fBFFFF\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprefix_length\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For the IPv4 and IPv6 families (\fBinet\fR and \fBinet6\fR), the
\fIprefix_length\fR is a number between 0 and the number of bits in the
address. For \fBinet\fR, the number of bits in the address is 32; for
\fBinet6\fR, the number of bits in the address is 128. The \fIprefix_length\fR
denotes the number of leading set bits in the netmask.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdest_address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the \fIdest_address\fR parameter is supplied in addition to the
\fIaddress\fR parameter, it specifies the address of the correspondent on the
other end of a point-to-point link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItunnel_dest_address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An address that is or will be reachable through an interface other than the
tunnel being configured. This tells the tunnel where to send the tunneled
packets. This address must not be the same as the interface destination address
being configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItunnel_src_address\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An address that is attached to an already configured interface that has been
configured "up" with \fBifconfig\fR.
.RE

.SH INTERFACE FLAGS
.sp
.LP
The \fBifconfig\fR command supports the following interface flags. The term
"address" in this context refers to a logical interface, for example,
\fBeri0:0\fR, while "interface" refers to the physical interface, for example,
\fBeri0\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBADDRCONF\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The address is from stateless \fBaddrconf\fR. The stateless mechanism allows a
host to generate its own address using a combination of information advertised
by routers and locally available information. Routers advertise prefixes that
identify the subnet associated with the link, while the host generates an
"interface identifier" that uniquely identifies an interface in a subnet. In
the absence of information from routers, a host can generate link-local
addresses. This flag is specific to IPv6.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBANYCAST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates an \fBanycast\fR address. An \fBanycast\fR address identifies the
nearest member of a group of systems that provides a particular type of
service. An \fBanycast\fR address is assigned to a group of systems. Packets
are delivered to the nearest group member identified by the \fBanycast\fR
address instead of being delivered to all members of the group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBROADCAST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This \fBbroadcast\fR address is valid. This flag and \fBPOINTTOPOINT\fR are
mutually exclusive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCoS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This interface supports some form of Class of Service (CoS) marking. An example
is the 802.1D user priority marking supported on \fBVLAN\fR interfaces. For
IPMP IP interfaces, this will only be set if all interfaces in the group have
CoS set.
.sp
Note that this flag is only set on interfaces over VLAN links and over Ethernet
links that have their \fBdladm\fR(1M) \fBtagmode\fR link property set to
\fBnormal\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEPRECATED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This address is deprecated. This address will not be used as a source address
for outbound packets unless there are no other addresses on this interface or
an application has explicitly bound to this address. An IPv6 deprecated address
is part of the standard mechanism for renumbering in IPv6 and will eventually
be deleted when not used. For both IPv4 and IPv6, \fBDEPRECATED\fR is also set
on all \fBNOFAILOVER\fR addresses, though this may change in a future release.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDHCPRUNNING\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The logical interface is managed by \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDUPLICATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The logical interface has been disabled because the IP address configured on
the interface is a duplicate. Some other node on the network is using this
address. If the address was configured by DHCP or is temporary, the system will
choose another automatically, if possible. Otherwise, the system will attempt
to recover this address periodically and the interface will recover when the
conflict has been removed from the network. Changing the address or netmask, or
setting the logical interface to \fBup\fR will restart duplicate detection.
Setting the interface to \fBdown\fR terminates recovery and removes the
\fBDUPLICATE\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFAILED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBin.mpathd\fR daemon has determined that the interface has failed.
\fBFAILED\fR interfaces will not be used to send or receive IP data traffic. If
this is set on a physical IP interface in an IPMP group, IP data traffic will
continue to flow over other usable IP interfaces in the IPMP group. If this is
set on an IPMP IP interface, the entire group has failed and no data traffic
can be sent or received over any interfaces in that group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFIXEDMTU\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MTU has been set using the \fB-mtu\fR option. This flag is read-only.
Interfaces that have this flag set have a fixed MTU value that is unaffected by
dynamic MTU changes that can occur when drivers notify IP of link MTU changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINACTIVE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The physical interface is functioning but is not used to send or receive data
traffic according to administrative policy. This flag is initially set by the
\fBstandby\fR subcommand and is subsequently controlled by \fBin.mpathd\fR. It
also set when \fBFAILBACK=no\fR mode is enabled (see \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M)) to
indicate that the IP interface has repaired but is not being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIPMP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that this is an IPMP IP interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOOPBACK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that this is the loopback interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMULTI_BCAST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the broadcast address is used for multicast on this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMULTICAST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The interface supports multicast. \fBIP\fR assumes that any interface that
supports hardware broadcast, or that is a point-to-point link, will support
multicast.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNOARP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is no address resolution protocol (\fBARP\fR) for this interface that
corresponds to all interfaces for a device without a broadcast address. This
flag is specific to IPv4.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNOFAILOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The address associated with this logical interface is available to
\fBin.mpathd\fR for probe-based failure detection of the associated physical IP
interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNOLOCAL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The interface has no address , just an on-link subnet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNONUD\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBNUD\fR is disabled on this interface. \fBNUD\fR (neighbor unreachability
detection) is used by a node to track the reachability state of its neighbors,
to which the node actively sends packets, and to perform any recovery if a
neighbor is detected to be unreachable. This flag is specific to IPv6.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNORTEXCH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The interface does not exchange routing information. For RIP-2, routing packets
are not sent over this interface. Additionally, messages that appear to come
over this interface receive no response. The subnet or address of this
interface is not included in advertisements over other interfaces to other
routers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNOXMIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the address does not transmit packets. RIP-2 also does not
advertise this address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOFFLINE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The interface is offline and thus cannot send or receive IP data traffic. This
is only set on IP interfaces in an IPMP group. See \fBif_mpadm\fR(1M) and
\fBcfgadm\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOINTOPOINT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the address is a point-to-point link. This flag and
\fBBROADCAST\fR are mutually exclusive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPREFERRED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This address is a preferred IPv6 source address. This address will be used as a
source address for IPv6 communication with all IPv6 destinations, unless
another address on the system is of more appropriate scope. The
\fBDEPRECATED\fR flag takes precedence over the \fBPREFERRED\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPRIVATE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that this address is not advertised. For RIP-2, this interface is
used to send advertisements. However, neither the subnet nor this address are
included in advertisements to other routers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROMISC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A read-only flag indicating that an interface is in promiscuous mode. All
addresses associated with an interface in promiscuous mode will display (in
response to \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR, for example) the \fBPROMISC\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBROUTER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that IP packets can be forwarded to and from the interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRUNNING\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the required resources for an interface are allocated. For some
interfaces this also indicates that the link is up. For IPMP IP interfaces,
\fBRUNNING\fR is set as long as one IP interface in the group is active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTANDBY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that this physical interface will not be used for data traffic unless
another interface in the IPMP group becomes unusable. The \fBINACTIVE\fR and
\fBFAILED\fR flags indicate whether it is actively being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTEMPORARY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that this is a temporary IPv6 address as defined in RFC 3041.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUNNUMBERED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This flag is set when the local IP address on the link matches the local
address of some other link in the system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the logical interface (and the associated physical interface) is
up. The IP module will accept packets destined to \fBUP\fR addresses (unless
the address is zero), along with any associated multicast and broadcast IP
addresses. Similarly, the IP module will allow packets to be sent with an
\fBUP\fR address as a source address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVIRTUAL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the physical interface has no underlying hardware. It is not
possible to transmit or receive packets through a virtual interface. These
interfaces are useful for configuring local addresses that can be used on
multiple interfaces. (See also the \fBusesrc\fR option.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBXRESOLV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that the interface uses an IPv6 external resolver.
.RE

.SH LOGICAL INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBTCP/IP\fR allows multiple logical interfaces to be associated with a
physical network interface. This allows a single machine to be assigned
multiple \fBIP\fR addresses, even though it may have only one network
interface. Physical network interfaces have names of the form \fIdriver-name
physical-unit-number\fR, while logical interfaces have names of the form
\fIdriver-name physical-unit-number\fR\fB:\fR\fIlogical-unit-number\fR. A
physical interface is configured into the system using the \fBplumb\fR command.
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 plumb\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Once a physical interface has been "plumbed", logical interfaces associated
with the physical interface can be configured by separate \fB-plumb\fR or
\fB-addif\fR options to the \fBifconfig\fR command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0:1 plumb\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
allocates a specific logical interface associated with the physical interface
\fBeri0\fR. The command
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 addif 192.168.200.1/24 up\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
allocates the next available logical unit number on the \fBeri0\fR physical
interface and assigns an \fIaddress\fR and \fIprefix_length\fR.
.sp
.LP
A logical interface can be configured with parameters (
\fIaddress\fR,\fIprefix_length\fR, and so on) different from the physical
interface with which it is associated. Logical interfaces that are associated
with the same physical interface can be given different parameters as well.
Each logical interface must be associated with an existing and "up" physical
interface. So, for example, the logical interface \fBeri0:1\fR can only be
configured after the physical interface \fBeri0\fR has been plumbed.
.sp
.LP
To delete a logical interface, use the \fBunplumb\fR or \fBremoveif\fR options.
For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0:1 down unplumb\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will delete the logical interface \fBeri0:1\fR.
.SH IP MULTIPATHING GROUPS
.sp
.LP
Physical interfaces that share the same link-layer broadcast domain \fBmust\fR
be collected into a single IP Multipathing (IPMP) group using the \fBgroup\fR
subcommand. Each IPMP group has an associated IPMP IP interface, which can
either be explicitly created (the preferred method) by using the \fBipmp\fR
subcommand or implicitly created by \fBifconfig\fR in response to placing an IP
interface into a new IPMP group. Implicitly-created IPMP interfaces will be
named \fBipmp\fR\fIN\fR where \fIN\fR is the lowest integer that does not
conflict with an existing IP interface name or IPMP group name.
.sp
.LP
Each IPMP IP interface is created with a matching IPMP group name, though it
can be changed using the \fBgroup\fR subcommand. Each IPMP IP interface hosts a
set of highly-available IP addresses. These addresses will remain reachable so
long as at least one interface in the group is active, where "active" is
defined as having at least one \fBUP\fR address and having \fBINACTIVE\fR,
\fBFAILED\fR, and \fBOFFLINE\fR clear. IP addresses hosted on the IPMP IP
interface may either be configured statically or configured through DHCP by
means of the \fBdhcp\fR subcommand.
.sp
.LP
Interfaces assigned to the same IPMP group are treated as equivalent and
monitored for failure by \fBin.mpathd\fR. Provided that active interfaces in
the group remain, IP interface failures (and any subsequent repairs) are
handled transparently to sockets-based applications. IPMP is also integrated
with the Dynamic Reconfiguration framework (see \fBcfgadm\fR(1M)), which
enables network adapters to be replaced in a way that is invisible to
sockets-based applications.
.sp
.LP
The IP module automatically load-spreads all outbound traffic across all active
interfaces in an IPMP group. Similarly, all \fBUP\fR addresses hosted on the
IPMP IP interface will be distributed across the active interfaces to promote
inbound load-spreading. The \fBipmpstat\fR(1M) utility allows many aspects of
the IPMP subsystem to be observed, including the current binding of IP data
addresses to IP interfaces.
.sp
.LP
When an interface is placed into an IPMP group, any \fBUP\fR logical interfaces
are "migrated" to the IPMP IP interface for use by the group, unless:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the logical interface is marked \fBNOFAILOVER\fR;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the logical interface hosts an IPv6 link-local address;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the logical interface hosts an IPv4 0.0.0.0 address.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Likewise, once an interface is in a group, if changes are made to a logical
interface such that it is \fBUP\fR and not exempted by one of the conditions
above, it will also migrate to the associated IPMP IP interface. Logical
interfaces never migrate back, even if the physical interface that contributed
the address is removed from the group.
.sp
.LP
Each interface placed into an IPMP group may be optionally configured with a
"test" address that \fBin.mpathd\fR will use for probe-based failure detection;
see \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M). These addresses must be marked \fBNOFAILOVER\fR (using
the \fB-failover\fR subcommand) prior to being marked \fBUP\fR. Test addresses
may also be acquired through DHCP by means of the \fBdhcp\fR subcommand.
.sp
.LP
For more background on IPMP, please see the IPMP-related chapters of the
\fISystem Administration Guide: Network Interfaces and Network
Virtualization\fR.
.SH CONFIGURING IPV6 INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
When an IPv6 physical interface is plumbed and configured "up" with
\fBifconfig\fR, it is automatically assigned an IPv6 link-local address for
which the last 64 bits are calculated from the \fBMAC\fR address of the
interface.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 inet6 plumb up\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example shows that the link-local address has a prefix of
\fBfe80::/10\fR.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 inet6\fR
ce0: flags=2000841<UP,RUNNING,MULTICAST,IPv6>
           mtu 1500 index 2 \
        inet6 fe80::a00:20ff:fe8e:f3ad/10
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Link-local addresses are only used for communication on the local subnet and
are not visible to other subnets.
.sp
.LP
If an advertising IPv6 router exists on the link advertising prefixes, then the
newly plumbed IPv6 interface will autoconfigure logical interface(s) depending
on the prefix advertisements. For example, for the prefix advertisement
\fB2001:0db8:3c4d:0:55::/64\fR, the autoconfigured interface will look like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
eri0:2: flags=2080841<UP,RUNNING,MULTICAST,ADDRCONF,IPv6>
          mtu 1500 index 2
        inet6 2001:0db8:3c4d:55:a00:20ff:fe8e:f3ad/64
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Even if there are no prefix advertisements on the link, you can still assign
global addresses manually, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 inet6 addif \e
2001:0db8:3c4d:55:a00:20ff:fe8e:f3ad/64 up\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To configure boot-time defaults for the interface \fBeri0\fR, place the
following entry in the \fB/etc/hostname6.eri0\fR file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
addif 2001:0db8:3c4d:55:a00:20ff:fe8e:f3ad/64 up
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Configuring IP-over-IP Tunnel Interfaces"
.sp
.LP
An IP tunnel is conceptually comprised of two parts: a virtual link between two
or more IP nodes, and an IP interface above this link which allows the system
to transmit and receive IP packets encapsulated by the underlying link.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdladm\fR(1M) command is used to configure tunnel links, and
\fBifconfig\fR is used to configure IP interfaces over those tunnel links.  An
IPv4-over-IPv4 tunnel is created by plumbing an IPv4 interface over an IPv4
tunnel link.  An IPv6-over-IPv4 tunnel is created by plumbing an IPv6 interface
over an IPv6 tunnel link, and so forth.
.sp
.LP
When IPv6 interfaces are plumbed over IP tunnel links, their IPv6 addresses are
automatically set. For IPv4 and IPv6 tunnels, source and destination link-local
addresses of the form \fBfe80::\fR\fIinterface-id\fR are configured. For IPv4
tunnels, the \fIinterface-id\fR is the IPv4 tunnel source or destination
address. For IPv6 tunnels, the \fIinterface-id\fR is the last 64 bits of the
IPv6 tunnel source or destination address. For example, for an IPv4 tunnel
between 10.1.2.3 and 10.4.5.6, the IPv6 link-local source and destination
addresses of the IPv6 interface would be \fBfe80::a01:203\fR and
\fBfe80::a04:506\fR. For an IPv6 tunnel between \fB2000::1234:abcd\fR and
\fB3000::5678:abcd\fR, the IPv6 link-local source and destination addresses of
the interface would be \fBfe80::1234:abcd\fR and \fBfe80::5678:abcd\fR. These
default link-local addresses can be overridden by specifying the addresses
explicitly, as with any other point-to-point interface.
.sp
.LP
For 6to4 tunnels, a 6to4 global address of the form \fB2002:\fItsrc\fR::1/16\fR
is configured. The \fItsrc\fR portion is the tunnel source IPv4 address. The
prefix length of the 6to4 interface is automatically set to 16, as all 6to4
packets (destinations in the \fB2002::/16\fR range) are forwarded to the 6to4
tunnel interface. For example, for a 6to4 link with a tunnel source of
75.1.2.3, the IPv6 interface would have an address of
\fB2002:4b01:203::1/16\fR.
.sp
.LP
Additional IPv6 addresses can be added using the \fBaddif\fR option or by
plumbing additional logical interfaces.
.sp
.LP
For backward compatibility, the plumbing of tunnel IP interfaces with special
names will implicitly result in the creation of tunnel links without invoking
\fBdladm create-iptun\fR. These tunnel names are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBip.tun\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An IPv4 tunnel
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBip6.tun\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An IPv6 tunnel
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBip.6to4tun\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A 6to4 tunnel
.RE

.sp
.LP
These tunnels are "implicit tunnels", denoted with the \fBi\fR flag in \fBdladm
show-iptun\fR output. The tunnel links over which these special IP interfaces
are plumbed are automatically created, and they are automatically deleted when
the last reference is released (that is, when the last IP interface is
unplumbed).
.sp
.LP
The \fBtsrc\fR, \fBtdst\fR, \fBencaplim\fR, and \fBhoplimit\fR options to
\fBifconfig\fR are obsolete and maintained only for backward compatibility.
They are equivalent to their \fBdladm\fR(1M) counterparts.
.SS "Display of Tunnel Security Settings"
.sp
.LP
The \fBifconfig\fR output for IP tunnel interfaces indicates whether IPsec
policy is configured for the underlying IP tunnel link. For example, a line of
the following form will be displayed if IPsec policy is present:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
tunnel security settings  -->  use 'ipsecconf -ln -i ip.tun1'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If you do net set security policy, using either \fBifconfig\fR or
\fBipsecconf\fR(1M), there is no tunnel security setting displayed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fBifconfig\fR Command
.sp
.LP
If your workstation is not attached to an Ethernet, the network interface, for
example, \fBeri0\fR, should be marked "down" as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 down\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRPrinting Addressing Information
.sp
.LP
To print out the addressing information for each interface, use the following
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig -a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRResetting the Broadcast Address
.sp
.LP
To reset each interface's broadcast address after the netmasks have been
correctly set, use the next command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig -a broadcast +\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRChanging the Ethernet Address
.sp
.LP
To change the Ethernet address for interface \fBce0\fR, use the following
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig ce0 ether aa:1:2:3:4:5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRConfiguring an IP-in-IP Tunnel
.sp
.LP
To configure an IP-in-IP tunnel, first create an IP tunnel link (\fBtunsrc\fR
and \fBtundst\fR are hostnames with corresponding IPv4 entries in
\fB/etc/hosts\fR):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBdladm create-iptun -T ipv4 -s tunsrc -d tundst tun0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Then plumb a point-to-point interface, supplying the source and destination
addresses (\fBmysrc\fR and \fBthedst\fR are hostnames with corresponding IPv4
entries in \fB/etc/hosts\fR):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig tun0 plumb mysrc thedst up\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Use \fBipsecconf\fR(1M), as described above, to configure tunnel security
properties.

.sp
.LP
Configuring IPv6 tunnels is done by using a tunnel type of \fBipv6\fR with
\fBcreate-iptun\fR. IPv6 interfaces can also be plumbed over either type of
tunnel.

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRConfiguring 6to4 Tunnels
.sp
.LP
To configure 6to4 tunnels, first create a 6to4 tunnel link (\fBmyv4addr\fR is a
hostname with a corresponding IPv4 entry in \fB/etc/hosts\fR):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBdladm create-iptun -T 6to4 -s myv4addr my6to4tun0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Then an IPv6 interface is plumbed over this link:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig my6to4tun0 inet6 plumb up\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The IPv6 address of the interface is automatically set as described above.

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRConfiguring IP Forwarding on an Interface
.sp
.LP
To enable IP forwarding on a single interface, use the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 router\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To disable IP forwarding on a single interface, use the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig eri0 -router\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRConfiguring Source Address Selection Using a Virtual Interface
.sp
.LP
The following command configures source address selection such that every
packet that is locally generated with no bound source address and going out on
\fBqfe2\fR prefers a source address hosted on \fBvni0\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig qfe2 usesrc vni0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR output for the \fBqfe2\fR and \fBvni0\fR interfaces
displays as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
qfe2: flags=1100843<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST,ROUTER,IPv4> mtu
  1500 index 4
  usesrc vni0
  inet 1.2.3.4 netmask ffffff00 broadcast 1.2.3.255
  ether 0:3:ba:17:4b:e1
vni0: flags=20011100c1<UP,RUNNING,NOARP,NOXMIT,ROUTER,IPv4,VIRTUAL>
  mtu 0 index 5
  srcof qfe2
  inet 3.4.5.6 netmask ffffffff
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Observe, above, the \fBusesrc\fR and \fBsrcof\fR keywords in the \fBifconfig\fR
output. These keywords also appear on the logical instances of the physical
interface, even though this is a per-physical interface parameter. There is no
\fBsrcof\fR keyword in \fBifconfig\fR for configuring interfaces. This
information is determined automatically from the set of interfaces that have
\fBusesrc\fR set on them.

.sp
.LP
The following command, using the \fBnone\fR keyword, undoes the effect of the
preceding \fBifconfig\fR \fBusesrc\fR command.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig qfe2 usesrc none\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Following this command, \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR output displays as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
qfe2: flags=1100843<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST,ROUTER,IPv4> mtu
  1500 index 4
  inet 1.2.3.4 netmask ffffff00 broadcast 1.2.3.255
  ether 0:3:ba:17:4b:e1
vni0: flags=20011100c1<UP,RUNNING,NOARP,NOXMIT,ROUTER,IPv4,VIRTUAL>
  mtu 0 index 5
  inet 3.4.5.6 netmask ffffffff
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note the absence of the \fBusesrc\fR and \fBsrcof\fR keywords in the output
above.

.LP
\fBExample 9 \fRConfiguring Source Address Selection for an IPv6 Address
.sp
.LP
The following command configures source address selection for an IPv6 address,
selecting a source address hosted on \fBvni0\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig qfe1 inet6 usesrc vni0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Following this command, \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR output displays as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
qfe1: flags=2000841<UP,RUNNING,MULTICAST,IPv6> mtu 1500 index 3
  usesrc vni0
  inet6 fe80::203:baff:fe17:4be0/10
  ether 0:3:ba:17:4b:e0
vni0: flags=2002210041<UP,RUNNING,NOXMIT,NONUD,IPv6,VIRTUAL> mtu 0
  index 5
  srcof qfe1
  inet6 fe80::203:baff:fe17:4444/128
vni0:1: flags=2002210040<RUNNING,NOXMIT,NONUD,IPv6,VIRTUAL> mtu 0
  index 5
  srcof qfe1
  inet6 fec0::203:baff:fe17:4444/128
vni0:2: flags=2002210040<RUNNING,NOXMIT,NONUD,IPv6,VIRTUAL> mtu 0
  index 5
  srcof qfe1
  inet6 2000::203:baff:fe17:4444/128
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Depending on the scope of the destination of the packet going out on
\fBqfe1\fR, the appropriately scoped source address is selected from \fBvni0\fR
and its aliases.

.LP
\fBExample 10 \fRUsing Source Address Selection with Shared-IP Zones
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of how the \fBusesrc\fR feature can be used with
the \fBzones\fR(5) facility in Solaris. The following commands are invoked in
the global zone:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBifconfig hme0 usesrc vni0\fR
example% \fBifconfig eri0 usesrc vni0\fR
example% i\fBfconfig qfe0 usesrc vni0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Following the preceding commands, the \fBifconfig\fR \fB-a\fR output for the
virtual interfaces would display as:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
vni0: flags=20011100c1<UP,RUNNING,NOARP,NOXMIT,ROUTER,IPv4,VIRTUAL>
   mtu 0 index 23
   srcof hme0 eri0 qfe0
   inet 10.0.0.1 netmask ffffffff
vni0:1:
   flags=20011100c1<UP,RUNNING,NOARP,NOXMIT,ROUTER,IPv4,VIRTUAL> mtu 0
   index 23
   zone test1
   srcof hme0 eri0 qfe0
   inet 10.0.0.2 netmask ffffffff
vni0:2:
   flags=20011100c1<UP,RUNNING,NOARP,NOXMIT,ROUTER,IPv4,VIRTUAL> mtu 0
   index 23
   zone test2
   srcof hme0 eri0 qfe0
   inet 10.0.0.3 netmask ffffffff
vni0:3:
   flags=20011100c1<UP,RUNNING,NOARP,NOXMIT,ROUTER,IPv4,VIRTUAL> mtu 0
   index 23
   zone test3
   srcof hme0 eri0 qfe0
   inet 10.0.0.4 netmask ffffffff
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
There is one virtual interface alias per zone (\fBtest1\fR, \fBtest2\fR, and
\fBtest3\fR). A source address from the virtual interface alias in the same
zone is selected. The virtual interface aliases were created using
\fBzonecfg\fR(1M) as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBzonecfg -z test1\fR
zonecfg:test1> \fBadd net\fR
zonecfg:test1:net> \fBset physical=vni0\fR
zonecfg:test1:net> \fBset address=10.0.0.2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBtest2\fR and \fBtest3\fR zone interfaces and addresses are created in
the same way.

.LP
\fBExample 11 \fRTurning Off DHCPv6
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to disable automatic use of DHCPv6 on all
interfaces, and immediately shut down DHCPv6 on the interface named \fBhme0\fR.
See \fBin.ndpd\fR(1M) and \fBndpd.conf\fR(4) for more information on the
automatic DHCPv6 configuration mechanism.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBecho ifdefault StatefulAddrConf false >> /etc/inet/ndpd.conf\fR
example% \fBpkill -HUP -x in.ndpd\fR
example% \fBifconfig hme0 dhcp release\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/netmasks\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Netmask data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/inet_type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default Internet protocol type.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
T{
Interface Stability for command-line options
T}	Committed
_
Interface Stability for command output	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpinfo\fR(1), \fBcfgadm\fR(1M), \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M), \fBdladm\fR(1M),
\fBif_mpadm\fR(1M), \fBin.mpathd\fR(1M), \fBin.ndpd\fR(1M),
\fBin.routed\fR(1M), \fBipmpstat\fR(1M), \fBipsecconf\fR(1M), \fBndd\fR(1M),
\fBnetstat\fR(1M), \fBzoneadm\fR(1M), \fBzonecfg\fR(1M), \fBethers\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBgethostbyname\fR(3NSL), \fBgetnetbyname\fR(3SOCKET), \fBhosts\fR(4),
\fBinet_type\fR(4), \fBndpd.conf\fR(4), \fBnetmasks\fR(4), \fBnetworks\fR(4),
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5),
\fBzones\fR(5), \fBarp\fR(7P), \fBipsecah\fR(7P), \fBipsecesp\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: IP Services\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
\fBifconfig\fR sends messages that indicate if:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the specified interface does not exist
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the requested address is unknown
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user is not privileged and tried to alter an interface's configuration
.RE
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Do not select the names \fBbroadcast\fR, \fBdown\fR, \fBprivate\fR,
\fBtrailers\fR, \fBup\fR or other possible option names when you choose host
names. If you choose any one of these names as host names, it can cause unusual
problems that are extremely difficult to diagnose.
