'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IIADM 1M "Nov 26, 2017"
.SH NAME
iiadm \- command-line interface to control Sun StorageTek Availability Suite
Point-in-Time Copy operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-e\fR {ind | shd} \fImaster_vol\fR \fIshadow_vol\fR \fIbitmap_vol\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-ne\fR ind \fImaster_vol\fR \fIshadow_vol\fR \fIbitmap_vol\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-n\fR] {\fB-c\fR | \fB-u\fR} {s | m} \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-adDilR\fR] \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fB-w\fR \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-hilLv\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-P\fR \fIdelay\fR \fIunits\fR \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-P\fR \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-A\fR \fIoverflow_vol\fR \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-OQ\fR] \fIoverflow_vol\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-E\fR \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-IJ\fR] \fIvolume_set\fR \fIbitmap\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR \fB-g\fR \fIgroup_name\fR [\fB-aAcdDeEilLmPRuw\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiiadm\fR [\fB-C\fR] \fIcluster_tag\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Point-in-Time Copy software is a point-in-time snapshot feature of the Solaris
operating system.
.sp
.LP
A Point-in-Time Copy snapshot is an instantly-available, time-fixed, replicated
view of a momentarily quiesced volume. Once a snapshot is taken, Point-in-Time
Copy software allows immediate read/write access to both the master and shadow
volume data.
.sp
.LP
Point-in-Time Copy software tracks the differences between the master and
shadow volumes (caused by writes) from the moment that the snapshot was
established. This capability allows applications accessing the master volume's
data to move forward in time independently of applications accessing the shadow
volume's data, and vice-versa.
.sp
.LP
The Point-in-Time Copy software's tracking of differences between the master
and shadow volumes facilitates a fast resynchronization or a full copy at a
later time. The volume resynchronization can occur from either shadow to master
or master to shadow.
.sp
.LP
Instantly after the point-in-time is (re-)established (either when the CLI
prompt returns or the next shell script command is read), the master volume can
be remounted or the applications using them can be resumed. Also, the shadow
volume can be mounted and immediately accessed.
.sp
.LP
The \fBiiadm\fR command line utility performs only one action per command
invocation. Because of this, you cannot combine multiple options, except in
combination with the following overall command modifiers:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If no action item is entered, \fBiiadm\fR displays the list of Point-in-Time
Copy sets (non-suspended) currently configured. If more than one action item,
or an incorrectly specified action item is entered, \fBiiadm\fR displays the
specific error message to stderr, followed by a brief usage summary.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For the Point-in-Time Copy options ENABLE (\fB-e\fR), COPY (\fB-c\fR) and
UPDATE (\fB-u\fR), there are two associated shadow volume selection qualifiers,
\fB{ind|dep}\fR, that are used to specify the type of Point-in-Time Copy volume
set to create.
.RE
.sp
.LP
An independent (\fBind\fR) snapshot causes Point-in-Time Copy software to
perform a full volume copy operation from the master to the shadow. When the
copy completes, the shadow volume data is identical to the master volume data
at the moment that it was established. Create an independent shadow if you
require two physical copies of the data. An independent shadow volume must be
the same size or greater than the size of the master volume. Sun recommends
that the master and shadow volumes be the same size for environments where
resynchronization from shadow to master is a consideration.
.sp
.LP
A dependent (\fBdep\fR) snapshot causes Point-in-Time Copy software not to
perform a full volume copy. The resulting shadow volume relies on the master
volume for all unmodified data blocks, which are not copied until requested.
Create a dependent shadow when you do not require two physical copies of the
data. A dependent shadow volume can be either the same size or smaller than the
master volume. A smaller shadow volume is called a \fBCompact Dependent Shadow
Volume\fR, and is typically used when the amount of change that occurs to a
Point-in-Time Copy volume set is small compared to the entire size of the
master volume.
.sp
.LP
The following syntax allows you to create an exportable independent shadow
volume in a Sun Cluster environment:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# iiadm -ne ind master shadow bitmap
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
An issue arises when using a Compact Dependent Shadow Volume in that its size
is established at the time that the Point-in-Time Copy volume set is enabled.
If the amount of change to the entire volume set over the duration of its usage
exceeds the space allocated for the shadow volume, the shadow volume is marked
as out of space. It is possible to read from the shadow volume even after it is
out of space, until a portion of the data for which there was no room is
requested. Once that happens, the read fails and the shadow volume is marked
offline.
.sp
.LP
To address this issue, Point-in-Time Copy supports the ability to associate an
\fBoverflow\fR volume to an existing Point-in-Time Copy dependent volume set.
Thus, if the size of the Compact Dependent Shadow Volume is too small, or an
unscheduled amount of change occurs to the volume set, changed data can be
redirected to the associated overflow volume. To facilitate efficient usage of
this overflow volume, it can be associated with multiple Point-in-Time Copy
volume sets on an as-needed basis.
.SS "Considerations"
.LP
Prior to invoking an Point-in-Time Copy \fBenable\fR, \fBcopy\fR or
\fBupdate\fR operation, Point-in-Time Copy assures that the shadow volume is
not mounted, to prevent a file system panic from occurring. Also, it is
suggested that you either unmount or suspend (quiesce) all applications using
the master volume, for only the instant when the point-in-time snapshot is
taken. This assures that an atomically consistent point-in-time snapshot is
taken.
.sp
.LP
It is suggested that, if the master volume was suspended rather than unmounted,
the new point-in-time shadow volume's integrity be validated using volume
validation utilities, such as \fBfsck\fR(1M). The reason is that Point-in-Time
Copy has made a point-in-time copy of a \fBmounted\fR master volume to an
\fBunmounted\fR shadow volume. During the mounting of the shadow volume, the
file system detects that it is in the \fBmounted\fR state. Typically this state
occurs only when a system crashes, so the file system attempts to validate the
integrity of the volume assuming a system failure occurred, not an
Point-in-Time Copy.
.SS "ENVIRONMENT OPTIONS"
.LP
The \fBii_bitmap\fR variable in the \fB/usr/kernel/drv/ii.conf\fR configuration
file determines the bitmap volume operational semantics as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Indicates that the bitmap is maintained in memory only or resume operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Indicates that the bitmap is maintained in memory and on disk. This is the
default value.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a system failure occurs while using \fBii_bitmap=0\fR, the shadow volume
might be inconsistent and fast resynchronization would not be possible.
.sp
.LP
If Point-in-Time Copy is used in conjunction with the Network Storage component
Remote Mirror or in a Sun Cluster, set \fBii_bitmap=1\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBii_debug\fR variable in the \fB/usr/kernel/drv/ii.conf\fR configuration
file determines the amount of information logging that is output to the system
console \fB/dev/console\fR during Point-in-Time Copy processing.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Indicates that no logging is sent to the system console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Indicates that informational logging is sent to the system console.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Indicates that developmental logging is sent to the system console.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The \fBiiadm\fR utility supports the following options.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fB{ind|dep}\fR \fImaster_vol shadow_vol bitmap_vol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable Point-in-Time Copy for the specified master, shadow, and bitmap volumes.
.sp
The enable shadow set processing assures that the specified volumes are
accessible, that the \fIshadow_vol\fR is not mounted, and that the
\fIbitmap_vol\fR is correctly sized for the type of shadow set being created.
Additionally, it assures that the volumes are under control of the SV driver (
if they are not, it puts them there), initializes the bitmap volume, and, if
the volume set is an independent shadow set, a full copy operation is
initiated.
.sp
On a successful enable, Point-in-Time Copy stores the specified
\fImaster_vol\fR, \fIshadow_vol\fR and \fIbitmap_vol\fR names, plus the
enabling type (\fBind\fR or \fBdep\fR), into the Point-in-Time Copy
configuration store. The configuration store contains all currently configured
Point-in-Time Copy Volume Sets and their associated configuration attributes.
(See discussion above on independent and dependent shadow volume semantics.)
.sp
\fImaster_vol\fR is the volume from which a point-in-time snapshot is made.
.sp
\fIshadow_vol\fR is the volume that contains the point-in-time snapshot.
.sp
\fIbitmap_vol\fR is used for tracking differences between the shadow and master
volumes. When Point-in-Time Copy shadow operations are suspended or resumed,
the bitmap volume (maintained in kernel memory) can be stored in or retrieved
from permanent storage. The storage associated with the bitmap volume should be
as redundant as that of the shadow volume storage.
.sp
The \fIshadow_vol\fR name is the name that the Point-in-Time Copy Shadow Set is
known by for all \fBiiadm\fR options requiring specification of a
\fIvolume_set\fR name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the Point-in-Time Copy volume set associated with the specified
\fIvolume_set\fR.
.sp
If Point-in-Time Copy was running in \fBindependent\fR mode as specified in the
\fB-e\fR \fBind\fR options, above, the shadow volume data contains the same
data as it did before it was disabled (assuming no writes have occurred). Users
can access the master and shadow volumes, as they are now standalone
point-in-time copies.
.sp
During the time that the full copy is active, an \fBindependent\fR volume
operates as though it is a \fBdependent\fR volume. To assure that the volume is
no longer in full copy mode, issue the following command to wait for the full
copy to complete:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# iiadm -w \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB[\fB-p\fR] \fB-u\fR \fBs\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Update the shadow volume from the master.
.sp
Updates a point-in-time copy of the master volume to the shadow volume.
\fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy shadow set containing the master and
shadow volumes. This option provides a fast resynchronization of the shadow
volume, creating an incremental copy of the master. This update copies all 32KB
segments flagged as different between the master and shadow volumes. It does
not copy all master volume data, only changed data. While the data is being
copied, the shadow is dependent upon the master volume.
.sp
Before using this option, momentarily quiesce the workload to the volumes; stop
the host application from writing to the volumes. This ensures that the
point-in-time data is consistent. You can visually check the status of this
copy or update operation with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-i\fR \fIvolume_set\fR, or
interactively (by means of a shell or script) with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-w\fR
\fIvolume_set\fR, before using the target volume for any other operations.
.sp
This command supports PID (Process IDentifier) locking, by using the option
\fB-p\fR, \fBiiadm\fR \fB-p\fR \fB-u\fR \fBs\fR. Enabling this option prevents
other processes from taking a new point-in-time snapshot, thus invalidating
prior point-in-time data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB[\fB-p\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fB-u\fR \fBm\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Updates a point-in-time copy of the master volume from the shadow.
\fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set containing the master and
shadow. This option provides a fast resynchronization of the master volume,
creating an incremental copy of the shadow. This update copies all 32KB
segments flagged as different between the master and shadow volumes. It does
not copy all shadow volume data, only changed data. While the data is being
copied, the master is dependent upon the shadow volume.
.sp
Before using this option, momentarily quiesce the workload to the volumes; stop
the host application from writing to the volumes. This ensures that the
point-in-time data is consistent. You can visually check the status of this
copy or update operation with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-i\fR \fIvolume_set\fR, or
interactively (by means of a shell or script) with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-w\fR
\fIvolume_set\fR, before using the target volume for any other operations.
.sp
This command is query enabled to prevent accidentally overwriting the data on a
master volume. When this command option is used in scripts, add the \fB-n\fR
option to prevent the query from occurring.
.sp
This command supports PID (Process IDentifier) locking, by using the option
\fB-p\fR, \fBiiadm\fR \fB-p\fR \fB-u\fR \fBm\fR. Enabling this option prevents
other processes from taking a new point-in-time snapshot, thus invalidating
prior point-in-time data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB[\fB-p\fR] \fB-c\fR s \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Copy the master volume to the shadow.
.sp
Creates a point-in-time copy of the master volume to the shadow volume.
\fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set containing the master and
shadow. This option writes all data in the point-in-time copy of the master
volume to the shadow volume. While the data is being copied from master to
shadow, the shadow is dependent on the master volume.
.sp
This option performs a full volume copy. Use \fBiiadm\fR \fB-u\fR \fBs\fR
unless the integrity of the data on the independent shadow volume is in doubt.
Otherwise, use this option to synchronize the master and shadow volumes; that
is, make the data on each volume match.
.sp
Before using this option, momentarily quiesce the workload to the volumes; stop
the host application from writing to the volumes. This ensures that the
point-in-time data is consistent. You can visually check the status of this
copy or update operation with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-i\fR \fIvolume_set\fR, or
interactively (by means of a shell or script) with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-w\fR
\fIvolume_set\fR, before using the target volume for any other operations.
.sp
This command supports PID (Process IDentifier) locking, by using the \fB-p\fR
option, \fBiiadm\fR \fB-p\fR \fB-c\fR \fBs\fR. Enabling this option prevents
other processes from taking a new point-in-time snapshot, thus invalidating
prior point-in-time data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fBm\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Copy the shadow volume to the master.
.sp
Creates a point-in-time copy of the shadow volume to the master volume.
\fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set containing the master and
shadow volumes. This option writes all data in the point-in-time copy of the
shadow volume to the master volume. While the data is being copied from the
shadow to the master, the master is dependent upon the shadow volume.
.sp
This option performs a full volume copy. Use \fBiiadm\fR \fB-u\fR \fBm\fR
unless the integrity of the data on the independent master is in doubt.
Otherwise, use this option to synchronize the master and shadow volumes; that
is, make the data on each volume match.
.sp
Before using this option, momentarily quiesce the workload to the volumes; stop
the host application from writing to the volumes. This ensures that the
point-in-time data is consistent. You can visually check the status of this
copy or update operation with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-i\fR \fIvolume_set\fR, or
interactively (by means of a shell or script) with \fBiiadm\fR \fB-w\fR
\fIvolume_set\fR, before using the target volume for any other operations.
.sp
This command is query-enabled to prevent accidentally overwriting the data on a
master volume. When this command option is used in scripts, add the \fB-n\fR
option to prevent the query from occurring.
.sp
This command supports PID (Process IDentifier) locking, by using the \fB-p\fR
option, \fBiiadm\fR \fB-p\fR \fB-c\fR \fBm\fR. Enabling this option prevents
other processes from taking a new point-in-time snapshot, thus invalidating
prior point-in-time data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Abort any current copy operation that might be active between the master and
shadow volumes. \fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set
containing the master and shadow volumes. After executing \fBiiadm\fR \fB-a\fR,
the update or copy to the target (master or shadow) volume is incomplete. The
target volume is now a dependent copy of the source volume. Reissue the update
or copy command option to resynchronize the volumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB[\fR\fB-p\fR\fB] [\fR\fB-n\fR\fB] \fR\fB-w\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Wait until any in-progress copy or update operation completes or is aborted.
\fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set containing the master and
shadow volumes.
.sp
This option waits until the current Point-in-Time Copy operation is complete,
thus preventing a subsequent \fBiiadm\fR command (from a shell or script) from
executing. Use this command option when you need to be sure the copy or update
operation has completed.
.sp
This command supports PID (Process IDentifier) unlocking. If a prior copy or
update, using a command \fBiiadm\fR \fB-p\fR \fB{\fR\fB-c\fR\fB|\fR\fB-u\fR\fB}
{m|s}\fR, was invoked with the \fB-p\fR option, upon completion of the wait
processing, if the current PID was the PID that locked the point-in-time data,
this option unlocks the data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display status for the Point-in-Time Copy currently-enabled or -suspended
volume set. \fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set containing
the master and shadow volumes. If no \fIvolume_set\fR is specified, status is
displayed for all Point-in-Time Copy volume sets that are configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all currently configured Point-in-Time Copy volumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR \fIoverflow_vol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option causes Point-in-Time Copy to initialize the specified
\fIoverflow_vol\fR for subsequent use as an overflow volume in conjunction with
Compact Dependent Shadow Volumes. To facilitate efficient, shared usage of this
overflow volume, it can be associated with multiple Point-in-Time Copy volume
sets on an as-needed basis.
.sp
During initialization of the \fIoverflow_vol\fR, the initiator of this option,
must answer the following question: "Initialize this overflow volume? yes/no" A
response of either "yes/no" is required before proceeding.
.sp
This option supports the \fB-n\fR option, so that the requested action is
performed without prompting. This option is useful for inclusion in a script.
The \fB-n\fR option must be specified first. For example, "\fBiiadm\fR
\fB-nO\fR \fBvol\fR" is valid; "\fBiiadm\fR \fB-On\fR \fBvol\fR" is not.
.sp
Make sure you want to initialize the data on the specified \fIoverflow_vol\fR,
especially when using the \fB-n\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR \fIoverflow_vol\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option enables the specified \fIoverflow_vol\fR, for subsequent use as an
overflow volume in a situation where the size of the Compact Dependent Shadow
Volume is too small, or an unscheduled amount of change occurs to the volume
set. Overflow changed data would be redirected to the associated overflow
volume. \fIvolume_set\fR is the Point-in-Time Copy volume set containing the
master and shadow volumes.
.sp
If the \fIoverflow_vol\fR has not been initialized, this option initializes the
\fIoverflow_vol\fR (see \fB-O\fR option), then attaches the \fIoverflow_vol\fR
to the \fIvolume_set\fR.
.sp
If \fIoverflow_vol\fR was previously initialized, this option attaches the
\fIoverflow_vol\fR to the \fIvolume_set\fR.
.sp
This option supports the \fB-n\fR option, so that the requested action is
performed without prompting. This option is useful for inclusion in a script.
The \fB-n\fR option must be specified first. For example, "\fBiiadm\fR
\fB-nA\fR \fBvol\fR" is valid; "\fBiiadm\fR \fB-An\fR \fBvol\fR" is not.
.sp
Make sure you want to initialize the data on the specified \fIoverflow_vol\fR,
especially when using the \fB-n\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option removes the overflow volume currently associated with the specified
\fIvolume_set\fR. If the overflow volume is currently in use by the
\fIvolume_set\fR, this operation fails with an "Overflow volume still in use"
error message. To resolve this situation, perform one of the operations
described below on the \fIvolume_set\fR. These operations momentarily clear out
all overflow writes that are associated with this volume set.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBabort\fR(\fB-a\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Abort copy operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisable\fR(\fB-d\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Dissolve the volume set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBupdate\fR(\fB-u\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Update the volume set.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option lists all overflow volumes which are associated with one or more
volume sets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Q\fR \fIoverflow_vol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option displays the current status of the \fIoverflow_vol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Export the independent shadow volume of the Point-in-Time Copy volume set
specified by \fIvolume_set\fR. The shadow volume is to be made available to
another host for read/write access, by means of an enabling technology, such as
multi-ported devices. This other host is responsible for maintaining a bitmap
of differences that is used to merge with locally recorded differences to the
master when the shadow volume is rejoined to its master volume. While a shadow
volume is exported it must not be subject to an update or copy operation.
Perform an \fBiiadm\fR \fB-w\fR \fIvolume_set\fR command prior to invoking an
export command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fIvolume_set\fR \fIbitmap_vol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Import the independent shadow volume of the Point-in-Time Copy volume set
specified by \fIvolume_set\fR. The shadow volume must have been previously
exported from a host by means of an enabling technology, such as multi-ported
devices. The import operation causes this host to start maintaining a bitmap of
differences as the volume is modified. The \fIbitmap_vol\fR should not be the
same as that used when the shadow volume was originally formed into a shadow
group.
.sp
After the exported/imported independent shadow volume is no longer needed by
the other node, you must enter a disable command so that the \fIbitmap_vol\fR
and its associated \fIshadow_vol\fR are consistent, prior to performing a join
operation. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# iiadm -d \fIvolume_set\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-J\fR \fIvolume_set\fR \fIbitmap_vol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Join the \fIvolume_set\fR, using the \fIbitmap_vol\fR, with the master volume
set of the Point-in-Time Copy volume set. The bitmap volume supplied is read
and merged with the original volume to reconstruct the original volume set
consisting of the master, shadow, and bitmap volumes. The \fIbitmap_vol\fR to
be merged is the one obtained on the node that had imported the independent
shadow volume. There must be no write activity to the shadow volume on the
importing machine from the time the bitmap is copied over until the shadow is
once again imported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fIgroup_name\fR \fB-m\fR \fIvolume_set [volume_set2 ...]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add one or more existing Point-in-Time Copy \fIvolume_set(s)\fR into a user
specified \fIgroup_name\fR. This association of one or more Point-in-Time Copy
volume sets in a group allows the list of \fBiiadm\fR options shown below to be
performed on all volume sets within the \fIgroup_name\fR as a whole.
.sp
Only the commands \fBCOPY\fR (\fB-c\fR) and \fBUPDATE\fR (\fB-u\fR) are
performed atomically across all Point-in-Time Copy sets within the group. All
other grouped, \fBiiadm\fR commands are performed sequentially on each member
of the group.
.sp
The syntax of an \fBiiadm\fR group command is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
iiadm -g \fIgroup_name\fR [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The \fIoptions\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Abort copy operation on all sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attach \fIoverflow_vol\fR to all sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fB{s | m}\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Copy shadow/master for all sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Detach \fIoverflow_vol\fR from all sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable all sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Export all volume sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Status of all volume sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all volume sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not ask if an update of the master volume is what the user really intended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set parameters on all volume sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reset all volume sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fB{s | m}\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Update shadow/master for all sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Wait for all volume sets within \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fB""\fR \fB-m\fR \fIvolume_set\fR [\fIvolume_set2 ...\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove one or more existing Point-in-Time Copy \fIvolume_set(s)\fR from their
currently associated \fIgroup_name\fR. By default, or until moved into a user
specified \fIgroup_name\fR, all Point-in-Time Copy \fIvolume_set(s)\fR are in
the blank (\fB" "\fR) group. This association allows all the previously
documented \fBiiadm\fR group commands to be performed against the blank (\fB"
"\fR) \fBiiadm\fR \fIgroup_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR \fIcluster_tag\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This Point-in-Time Copy option is a modifier that limits configuration
operations to only those volumes belonging to a Sun Cluster Resource Group, or
Disk Group.
.sp
In a Sun Cluster where the volume manager is Sun Cluster-aware, \fBiiadm\fR
automatically obtains the correct Disk Group information, therefore this option
is typically not required unless the volumes are part of an encompassing
Resource Group.
.sp
In a Sun Cluster where the volumes are accessible on the local node only, the
special \fIcluster_tag\fR of \fBlocal\fR is used to indicate volumes that are
not part of a Sun Cluster Resource Group or Disk Group.
.sp
If "\fB-L\fR" is given as a the \fIcluster_tag\fR argument, then \fBiiadm\fR
lists all cluster tags associated with Point-in-Time Copy.
.sp
This option is invalid when used on a Solaris system on which the Sun Cluster
package has not been installed or configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the \fBiiadm\fR usage summary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the current version of the Point-in-Time Copy software components.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Contact Sun Enterprise Services for assistance in using the remaining commands
in this section.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIdelay\fR \fIunit\fR \fIvolume_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Alter the Point-in-Time Copy volume set tuning parameters for the specified
\fIvolume_set\fR to \fIdelay\fR ticks, every \fIunit\fR I/O's. Delay ranges
from 2 to 10000 inclusive; unit ranges from 100 to 60000 inclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIvolume\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
After a volume has failed, Point-in-Time Copy places it offline. After
replacing the volume, place it back online using this option. Associated
dependent volumes in the Point-in-Time Copy volume set are also placed online.
After the volume is placed online, this command also starts any necessary
point-in-time volume updates.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Command completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdscfg\fR(1M), \fBsvadm\fR(1M), \fBds.log\fR(4), \fBrdc.cf\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBii\fR(7D), \fBsv\fR(7D)
