'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IN.CHARGEND 1M "Aug 23, 2004"
.SH NAME
in.chargend \- UDP or TCP character generator service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.chargend\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/chargen:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to identify
resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and \fBsmf\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.chargend\fR service provides the server-side of the
character-generator protocol. This protocol is used for debugging and bandwidth
measurement and is available on both TCP and UDP transports, through port 19.
.sp
.LP
The in.chargend service is an \fBinetd\fR(1M) \fBsmf\fR(5) delegated service.
The \fBin.chargend\fR detects which transport is requested by examining the
socket it is passed by the \fBinetd\fR daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTCP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Once a connection is established, the \fBin.chargend\fR generates a stream of
data. Any data received is discarded. The server generates data until the
client program terminates the connection. Note that the data flow is limited by
TCP flow control mechanisms.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUDP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The \fBin.chargend\fR listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is received,
the server generates a UDP datagram in response containing a random number of
ASCII characters (ranging from 0 to 512 characters). Any received data is
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBin.chargend\fR data consists of a pattern of 72 character lines
containing the printable, 7-bit ASCII characters. Each line is terminated with
a carriage return and a line feed character.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 864
