'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IN.RDISC 1M "Nov 9, 2006"
.SH NAME
in.rdisc, rdisc \- network router discovery daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/in.rdisc\fR  [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIsend-address\fR] [\fIreceive-address\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/in.rdisc\fR  \fB-r\fR [\fB-p\fR \fIpreference\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIinterval\fR]
 [\fIsend-address\fR] [\fIreceive-address\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBin.rdisc\fR remains part of the software distribution of the Solaris
Operating Environment. It is, however, not used by default. \fBin.routed\fR(1M)
includes the functionality provided by \fBin.rdisc\fR. See \fBrouteadm\fR(1M)
for details of how to specify the IPV4 routing daemon.
.sp
.LP
\fBin.rdisc\fR implements the \fBICMP\fR router discovery protocol. The first
form of the command is used on hosts and the second form is used on routers.
.sp
.LP
\fBin.rdisc\fR can be invoked in either the first form (host mode) or second
form (router mode).
.sp
.LP
On a host, \fBin.rdisc\fR populates the network routing tables with default
routes. On a router, advertises the router to all the hosts.
.sp
.LP
\fBin.rdisc\fR is managed by the service management facility (SMF), by means of
the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/routing/rdisc:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Host (First Form)"
.sp
.LP
On a host, \fBin.rdisc\fR listens on the \fBALL_HOSTS\fR (224.0.0.1) multicast
address for \fBROUTER_ADVERTISE\fR messages from routers. The received messages
are handled by first ignoring those listed router addresses with which the host
does not share a network. Among the remaining addresses, the ones with the
highest preference are selected as default routers and a default route is
entered in the kernel routing table for each one of them.
.sp
.LP
Optionally, \fBin.rdisc\fR can avoid waiting for routers to announce themselves
by sending out a few \fBROUTER_SOLICITATION\fR messages to the
\fBALL_ROUTERS\fR (224.0.0.2) multicast address when it is started.
.sp
.LP
A timer is associated with each router address. The address will no longer be
considered for inclusion in the routing tables if the timer expires before a
new \fIadvertise\fR message is received from the router. The address will also
be excluded from consideration if the host receives an \fIadvertise\fR message
with the preference being maximally negative or with a lifetime of zero.
.SS "Router (Second Form)"
.sp
.LP
When \fBin.rdisc\fR is started on a router, it uses the \fBSIOCGIFCONF\fR
\fBioctl\fR(2) to find the interfaces configured into the system and it starts
listening on the \fBALL_ROUTERS\fR multicast address on all the interfaces that
support multicast. It sends out \fIadvertise\fR messages to the \fBALL_HOSTS\fR
multicast address advertising all its \fBIP\fR addresses. A few initial
\fIadvertise\fR messages are sent out during the first 30 seconds and after
that it will transmit \fIadvertise\fR messages approximately every 600 seconds.
.sp
.LP
When \fBin.rdisc\fR receives a \fIsolicitation\fR message, it sends an
\fIadvertise\fR message to the host that sent the \fIsolicitation\fR message.
.sp
.LP
When \fBin.rdisc\fR is terminated by a signal, it sends out an \fIadvertise\fR
message with the preference being maximally negative.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options and equivalent SMF service properties are listed below. SMF
service properties are set using a command of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBrouteadm -m rdisc:default \fIkey\fR=\fIvalue\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Accept all routers independent of the preference they have in their
\fIadvertise\fR messages. Normally, \fBin.rdisc\fR only accepts (and enters in
the kernel routing tables) the router or routers with the highest preference.
Use of this option is equivalent to setting the \fBaccept_all\fR property to
true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Run \fBin.rdisc\fR forever even if no routers are found. Normally,
\fBin.rdisc\fR gives up if it has not received any \fIadvertise\fR message
after soliciting three times, in which case it exits with a non-zero exit code.
If \fB-f\fR is not specified in the first form then \fB-s\fR must be specified.
For SMF execution, this option is required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Act as a router, rather than a host. Use of this option is equivalent to
setting the \fBact_as_router\fR property to true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Send three \fIsolicitation\fR messages initially to quickly discover the
routers when the system is booted. When \fB-s\fR is specified, \fBin.rdisc\fR
exits with a non-zero exit code if it can not find any routers. This can be
overridden with the \fB-f\fR option. This option is not compatible with SMF
execution and is not supported for the \fBrdisc\fR service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpreference\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Set the preference transmitted in the \fIsolicitation\fR messages. The default
is zero. Use of this option is equivalent to setting the \fBpreference\fR
property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Set the interval between transmitting the \fIadvertise\fR messages. The default
time is 600 seconds. Use of this option is equivalent to setting the
\fBtransmit_interval\fR property.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBsend-address\fR and \fBreceive-address\fR daemon options  can be set by
means of the \fBsend_address\fR and \fBreceive_address\fR properties.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBin.routed\fR(1M), \fBrouteadm\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBioctl\fR(2),
\fBgateways\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBicmp\fR(7P),
\fBinet\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
Deering, S.E., editor, \fIICMP Router Discovery Messages\fR, \fBRFC\fR 1256,
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California,
September 1991.
