'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IN.TIMED 1M "Aug 23, 2004"
.SH NAME
in.timed \- UDP or TCP time protocol service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.timed\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
FMRI \fIsvc\fR:/internet/time:default
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
FMRI stands for Fault Management Resource Identifier. It is used to identify
resources managed by the Fault Manager. See \fBfmd\fR(1M) and \fBsmf\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The \fBin.timed\fR service provides the server-side of the time protocol. The
time server sends to requestors the time in seconds since midnight, January 1,
1900. The time protocol is available on both TCP and UDP transports through
port 37.
.sp
.LP
The in.timed service is an \fBinetd\fR(1M) \fBsmf\fR(5) delegated service. The
\fBin.timed\fR detects which transport is requested by examining the socket it
is passed by the \fBinetd\fR daemon.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTCP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Once a connection is established, the \fBin.timed\fR sends the time as a 32-bit
binary number and closes the connection. Any received data is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUDP-based service\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The \fBin.timed\fR listens for UDP datagrams. When a datagram is received, the
server generates a UDP datagram containing the time as a 32-bit binary number
and sends it to the client. Any received data is ignored.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
RFC 868
