'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IN.TFTPD 1M "Jun 17, 2015"
.SH NAME
in.tftpd, tftpd \- Internet Trivial File Transfer Protocol server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBin.tftpd\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIrexmtval\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIhomedir\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBtftpd\fR is a server that supports the Internet Trivial File Transfer
Protocol (TFTP).
.sp
.LP
Before responding to a request, the server attempts to change its current
directory to \fIhomedir\fR; the default directory is \fB/tftpboot\fR.
.sp
.LP
The use of \fBtftp\fR does not require an account or password on the remote
system. Due to the lack of authentication information, \fBin.tftpd\fR will
allow only publicly readable files to be accessed. Files may be written only if
they already exist and are publicly writable. Note that this extends the
concept of "public" to include all users on all hosts that can be reached
through the network. This may not be appropriate on all systems, and its
implications should be considered before enabling this service.
.sp
.LP
\fBin.tftpd\fR runs with the user \fBID\fR and group \fBID\fR set to
\fB[GU]ID_NOBODY\fR under the assumption that no files exist with that owner or
group. However, nothing checks this assumption or enforces this restriction.
.SH OPTIONS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Debug. When specified it sets the \fBSO_DEBUG\fR socket option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Secure. When specified, the directory change to \fIhomedir\fR must succeed. The
daemon also changes its root directory to \fIhomedir\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fIrexmtval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies the value of the retransmission timeout in seconds. This also affects
the maximum session timeout in that the latter is set to five times the
retransmission timeout value.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.LP
The \fBin.tftpd\fR server is IPv6-enabled. See \fBip6\fR(7P).
.LP
\fBin.tftpd\fR supports transfers of greater than 32 MB, per RFC 2348.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBtftp\fR(1), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M),
\fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBnetconfig\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5),
\fBip6\fR(7P)
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A. \fIRFC 2347, TFTP Option Extension\fR. The Internet
Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A. \fIRFC 2348, TFTP Blocksize Option\fR. The Internet
Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Malkin, G. and Harkin, A. \fIRFC 2349, TFTP Timeout Interval and Transfer Size
Options\fR. The Internet Society. May 1998
.sp
.LP
Sollins, K.R. \fIRFC 1350, The TFTP Protocol (Revision 2)\fR. Network Working
Group. July 1992.
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBtftpd\fR server only acknowledges the transfer size option that is sent
with a \fBread\fR request when the octet transfer mode is specified.
.LP
The \fBin.tftpd.1m\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/tftp/udp6:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for
initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use
\fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration
information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the
\fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
