.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Toomas Soome <tsoome@me.com>
.\"
.Dd February 10, 2016
.Dt INSTALLBOOT 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm installboot
.Nd install bootloader in a disk partition
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ss SPARC
.Nm
.Op Fl fn
.Op Fl F Sy zfs Ns | Ns Sy ufs Ns | Ns Sy hsfs
.Op Fl u Ar verstr
.Ar bootblk raw-device
.Nm
.Op Fl enV
.Fl F Sy zfs
.Fl i
.Ar raw-device
.Nm
.Op Fl n
.Fl F Sy zfs
.Fl M
.Ar raw-device attach-raw-device
.Ss x86
.Nm
.Op Fl fFmn
.Op Fl u Ar verstr
.Ar stage1 stage2 raw-device
.Nm
.Op Fl enV
.Fl i
.Ar raw-device
.Nm
.Op Fl n
.Fl M
.Ar raw-device attach-raw-device
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Xr boot 1M
boot program is loaded from disk and is responsible of loading kernel and its
support files from specific file system.
.Pp
The SPARC systems have one boot loader program file to be installed on the boot
area of a disk slice. As the SPARC zfs boot loader is too large to fit into
boot area at the start of the disk slice,
.Nm
command will split the zfs boot loader between disk slice boot area, and zfs
pool boot area.
.Pp
The x86 systems have boot loader implemented as three stages:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy stage1
.Pa /boot/pmbr
is used as master boot record
.Pq MBR
and partition boot program.
.It Sy stage2
.Pa /boot/gptzfsboot
is responsible for loading files from file system. The
.Sy stage2
on x86 systems is always installed to zfs pool boot area, and therefore only zfs
boot is supported.
.Nm
command will record the location of
.Sy stage2
to
.Sy stage1 ,
which is always installed at least on partition
.Pq MBR or GPT
boot area, making it possible to boot via chainload from other boot loaders.
.Pp
When
.Nm
command is used with the
.Fl m
option,
.Nm
installs the stage1 file on the master boot sector of the disk as well.
.It Sy stage3
.Pa /boot/zfsloader
is read from file system and executed by
.Sy stage2
and will provide boot loader user environment and is responsible of loading
and starting the operating system kernel.
.Pp
In case of GPT partitioning scheme, if the file system to boot from is either
UFS or PCFS, there must be
.Sy boot
partition defined to store stage2 boot program. This is needed because UFS and
PCFS do not have sufficient space reserved to store boot programs.
.Pp
The boot partition must use following GPT UUID:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
6a82cb45-1dd2-11b2-99a6-080020736631
.Ed
.Pp
which is provided by
.Qq boot
tag in
.Xr format 1M
partition menu.
.El
.Ss Options
The
.Nm
command accepts the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Prints short usage message.
.It Fl m
Installs
.Sy stage1
on the master boot sector interactively. You must use this option if OS is
installed on an extended FDISK or an EFI/GPT partition.
.It Fl f
Suppresses interaction when overwriting the master boot sector on x86.
Force update on SPARC.
.It Fl n
Dry run session. Will not write to disk.
.It Fl F
On SPARC, specify file system type. On x86, inhibit version check and enforce
boot loader update.
.It Fl u Ar verstr
Specify custom version string. Can be used to add version on non-versioned
boot loader or change built in version string.
.It Fl i
Print version string from installed boot loader.
.It Fl e
Print version string from installed boot loader without description.
.It Fl V
Print version string from installed boot loader with full description.
.It Fl M
Mirror boot loader from installed disk partition.
.El
.Ss Operands
The
.Nm
command accepts the following operands:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar bootblk
The name of the SPARC boot loader code.
.It Ar stage1
The name of the loader stage 1 file.
.It Ar stage2
The name of the loader stage 2 file.
.It Ar raw-device
The name of the device onto which bootloader code is to be installed. It must be
a character device that is readable and writable and part of boot pool.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /boot
Directory where x86 loader files reside.
.It Pa /usr/platform/platform name/lib/fs
Directory where SPARC boot loader files reside.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy Example 1 No Installing zfs boot loader on SPARC disk slice
The following command installs zfs boot loader on SPARC system:
.Bd -literal
# installboot -F zfs /usr/platform/`uname -i`/lib/fs/zfs/bootblk \e
  /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s0
.Ed
.It Sy Example 2 No Installing boot loader on x86 system
The following command installs loader stage files and master boot record:
.Bd -literal
# installboot -m /boot/pmbr /boot/gptzfsboot /dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s0
.Ed
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr boot 1M ,
.Xr bootadm 1M ,
.Xr fdisk 1M ,
.Xr fmthard 1M ,
.Xr format 1M ,
.Xr kernel 1M ,
.Xr attributes 5
.Sh WARNINGS
Installing
.Sy stage1
on the master boot sector
.Po
.Fl m
option
.Pc
overrides any boot loader currently installed on the machine. The system will
always boot the current OS partition regardless of which fdisk partition is
active.
.Pp
If version string indicates the source boot loader might be more recent,
.Nm
will also verify md5 checksums to determine if update is really necessary. If
checksums match, the install will not be performed.
