'\" te
.\" Copyright 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH INTRO 1M "Sep 8, 2015"
.SH NAME
Intro, intro \- introduction to maintenance commands and application programs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This section describes, in alphabetical order, commands that are used chiefly
for system maintenance and administration purposes.
.LP
Because of command restructuring for the Virtual File System architecture,
there are several instances of multiple manual pages that begin with the same
name. For example, the   \fBmount\fR, pages \(mi \fBmount\fR(1M),
\fBmount_hsfs\fR(1M), \fBmount_nfs\fR(1M), \fBmount_tmpfs\fR(1M),
and \fBmount_ufs\fR(1M). In each such case the first of the
multiple pages describes the syntax and options of the generic command, that
is, those options applicable to all FSTypes (file system types). The succeeding
pages describe the functionality of the FSType-specific modules of the command.
These pages list the command followed by an underscore ( _ ) and the FSType to
which they pertain. Note that the administrator should not attempt to call
these modules directly. The generic command provides a common interface to all
of them. Thus the FSType-specific manual pages should not be viewed as
describing distinct commands, but rather as detailing those aspects of a
command that are specific to a particular FSType.
.SH COMMAND SYNTAX
.LP
Unless otherwise noted, commands described in this section accept options and
other arguments according to the following syntax:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIname\fR [\fIoption\fR(\fIs\fR)] [\fIcmdarg\fR(\fIs\fR)]
.fi
.in -2

.LP
where:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The name of an executable file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoption\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fB\(mi\fR \fInoargletter\fR(\fIs\fR) or,
.sp
\fB\(mi\fR \fIargletter\fR<\|>\fIoptarg\fR
.sp
where <\|> is optional white space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInoargletter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A single letter representing an option without an argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIargletter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A single letter representing an option requiring an argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoptarg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Argument (character string) satisfying preceding \fIargletter\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcmdarg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Pathname (or other command argument) \fInot\fR beginning with \fB\(mi\fR or,
\fB\(mi\fR by itself indicating the standard input.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a discussion of the attributes listed in this
section.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.LP
Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to
reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation
from The Open Group can be obtained online at
http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/\&.
.LP
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have
given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.LP
In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions of the
system documentation.
.LP
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the
SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for
Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open
Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of
any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html\&.
.LP
This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBgetopt\fR(1), \fBgetopt\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Upon termination, each command returns 0 for normal termination and non-zero to
indicate troubles such as erroneous parameters, bad or inaccessible data, or
other inability to cope with the task at hand. It is called variously ``exit
code,'' ``exit status,'' or ``return code,'' and is described only where
special conventions are involved.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Unfortunately, not all commands adhere to the standard syntax.
