'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for IP Filter, the default path is /usr/lib/ipf/IPFILTER.LICENCE. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the installed
.\" location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2013, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH IPFS 1M "Oct 30, 2013"
.SH NAME
ipfs \- saves and restores information for NAT and state tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nv\fR] \fB-l\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nv\fR] \fB-u\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nv\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdirname\fR] \fB-R\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nv\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdirname\fR] \fB-W\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nNSv\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] \fB-r\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nNSv\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] \fB-w\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBipfs\fR [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-nNSv\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR \fB-i\fR \fI<if1>\fR,\fI<if2>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBipfs\fR utility enables the saving of state information across reboots.
Specifically, the utility allows state information created for NAT entries and
rules using "keep state" to be locked (modification prevented) and then saved
to disk. Then, after a reboot, that information is restored. The result of this
state-saving is that connections are not interrupted.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Change the default directory used with \fB-R\fR and \fB-W\fR options for saving
state information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Do not take any action that would affect information stored in the kernel or on
disk.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Provides a verbose description of \fBipfs\fR activities.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Operate on NAT information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Operate on filtering state information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Unlock state tables in the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Lock state tables in the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Read information in from the specified file and load it into the kernel. This
requires the state tables to have already been locked and does not change the
lock once complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Write information out to the specified file and from the kernel. This requires
the state tables to have already been locked and does not change the lock once
complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Restores all saved state information, if any, from two files, \fBipstate.ipf\fR
and \fBipnat.ipf\fR, stored in the \fB/var/db/ipf\fR directory. This directory
can be changed with the \fB-d\fR option. The state tables are locked at the
beginning of this operation and unlocked once complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-W\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Saves in-kernel state information, if any, out to two files, \fBipstate.ipf\fR
and \fBipnat.ipf\fR, stored in the \fB/var/db/ipf\fR directory. This directory
can be changed with the \fB-d\fR option. The state tables are locked at the
beginning of this operation and unlocked once complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Operate on the in-zone state information for the specified zone. If neither
this option nor \fB-G\fR is specified, the current zone is used. This command
is only available in the Global Zone. See \fBZONES\fR in \fBipf\fR(1m) for
more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Operate on the global zone controlled state information for the specified
zone. If neither this option nor \fB-z\fR is specified, the current zone is
used. This command is only available in the Global Zone. See \fBZONES\fR in
\fBipf\fR(1m) for more information.
.RE

.SH FILES
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/var/db/ipf/ipstate.ipf\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/var/db/ipf/ipnat.ipf\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/dev/ipl\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/dev/ipstate\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/dev/ipnat\fR
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBipf\fR(1M), \fBipmon\fR(1M), \fBipnat\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBzones(5)\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Arguably, the \fB-W\fR and \fB-R\fR operations should set the locking and,
rather than undo it, restore it to what it was previously.
.sp
.LP
Fragment table information is currently not saved.
