'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for IP Filter, the default path is /usr/lib/ipf/IPFILTER.LICENCE. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the installed
.\" location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2013, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH IPMON 1M "Oct 30, 2013"
.SH NAME
ipmon \- monitors /dev/ipl for logged packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipmon\fR [\fB-abDFhnpstvxX\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIdevice\fR] [ [o] [NSI]] [\fB-O\fR [NSI]]
     [\fB-P\fR \fIpidfile\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBipmon\fR command is part of a suite of commands associated with the
Solaris IP Filter feature. See \fBipfilter\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
The \fBipmon\fR command opens \fB/dev/ipl\fR for reading and awaits data to be
saved from the packet filter. The binary data read from the device is reprinted
in human readable form. However, IP addresses are not mapped back to hostnames,
nor are ports mapped back to service names. The output goes to standard output,
by default, or a filename, if specified on the command line. Should the
\fB-s\fR option be used, output is sent instead to \fBsyslogd\fR(1M). Messages
sent by means of \fBsyslog\fR have the day, month, and year removed from the
message, but the time (including microseconds), as recorded in the log, is
still included.
.sp
.LP
Messages generated by \fBipmon\fR consist of whitespace-separated fields.
Fields common to all messages are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The date of packet receipt. This is suppressed when the message is sent to
\fBsyslog\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The time of packet receipt. This is in the form
\fIHH\fR:\fIMM\fR:\fISS\fR.\fIF\fR, for hours, minutes, seconds, and fractions
of a second (which can be several digits long).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The name of the interface on which the packet was processed, for example,
\fBib1\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The group and rule number of the rule, for example, \fB@0:17\fR. These can be
viewed with \fBipfstat\fR \fB-in\fR for input rules or \fBipfstat\fR \fB-in\fR
for output rules. See \fBipfstat\fR(1M).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The action: \fBp\fR for passed, \fBb\fR for blocked, \fBs\fR for a short
packet, \fBn\fR did not match any rules, or \fBL\fR for a log rule.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The addresses. This is actually three fields: the source address and port
(separated by a comma), the symbol \(->, and the destination address and port.
For example: \fB209.53.17.22,80 \(-> 198.73.220.17,1722\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBPR\fR followed by the protocol name or number, for example, \fBPR tcp\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBlen\fR followed by the header length and total length of the packet, for
example, \fBlen 20 40\fR.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the packet is a TCP packet, there will be an additional field starting with
a hyphen followed by letters corresponding to any flags that were set. See
\fBipf.conf\fR(4) for a list of letters and their flags.
.sp
.LP
If the packet is an ICMP packet, there will be two fields at the end, the first
always being \fBicmp\fR, the next being the ICMP message and submessage type,
separated by a slash. For example, \fBicmp 3/3\fR for a port unreachable
message.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Open all of the device logfiles for reading log entries. All entries are
displayed to the same output device (stderr or syslog).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For rules which log the body of a packet, generate hex output representing the
packet contents after the headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause \fBipmon\fR to turn itself into a daemon. Using subshells or
backgrounding of \fBipmon\fR is not required to turn it into an orphan so it
can run indefinitely.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternative device/file from which to read the log information for
normal IP Filter log records.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flush the current packet log buffer. The number of bytes flushed is displayed,
even if the result is zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays usage information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
IP addresses and port numbers will be mapped, where possible, back into
hostnames and service names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the logfile to be opened for reading NAT log records from or to
\fIdevice\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIletter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify which log files from which to actually read data. \fBN\fR, NAT logfile;
\fBS\fR, state logfile; \fBI\fR, normal IP Filter logfile. The \fB-a\fR option
is equivalent to using \fB-o\fR \fBNSI\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR \fIletter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify which log files you do not wish to read from. This is most commonly
used in conjunction with the \fB-a\fR. Letters available as parameters are the
same as for \fB-o\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause the port number in log messages always to be printed as a number and
never attempt to look it up.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIpidfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write the PD of the \fBipmon\fR process to a file. By default this is
\fB/var/run/ipmon.pid\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packet information read in will be sent through \fBsyslogd\fR rather than saved
to a file. The default facility when compiled and installed is \fBlocal0\fR.
The following levels are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOG_INFO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets logged using the \fBlog\fR keyword as the action rather than \fBpass\fR
or \fBblock\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOG_NOTICE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets logged that are also passed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOG_WARNING\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets logged that are also blocked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOG_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Packets that have been logged and that can be considered "short".
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the logfile to be opened for reading state log records from or to
\fIdevice\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read the input file/device in the way performed by \fBtail\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show TCP \fBwindow\fR, \fBack\fR, and \fBsequence\fR fields
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the packet data in hex.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the log header record data in hex.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Monitor packets the specified zone's in-zone filter. If neither this option
nor \fB-G\fR is specified, the current zone is used. This command is only
available in the Global Zone. See \fBZONES\fR in \fBipf\fR(1m) for more
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Monitor packets for the specified zone's global zone controlled filter. If
neither this option nor \fB-z\fR is specified, the current zone is used. This
command is only available in the Global Zone. See \fBZONES\fR in \fBipf\fR(1m)
for more information.
.RE

.SH FILES
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/dev/ipl\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/dev/ipnat\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/dev/ipstate\fR
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBipf\fR(1M), \fBipfstat\fR(1M), \fBipnat\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBipfilter\fR(5), \fBzones(5)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
\fBipmon\fR expects data that it reads to be consistent with how it should be
saved and aborts if it fails an assertion which detects an anomaly in the
recorded data.
