'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for IP Filter, the default path is /usr/lib/ipf/IPFILTER.LICENCE. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the installed
.\" location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2013, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH IPNAT 1M "Oct 30, 2013"
.SH NAME
ipnat \- user interface to the NAT subsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipnat\fR [\fB-CdFhlnRrsv\fR] [\fB-G\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBipnat\fR utility opens a specified file (treating \fB-\fR as stdin) and
parses it for a set of rules that are to be added or removed from the IP NAT.
.sp
.LP
If there are no parsing problems, each rule processed by \fBipnat\fR is added
to the kernel's internal lists. Rules are appended to the internal lists,
matching the order in which they appear when given to \fBipnat\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBipnat\fR's use is restricted through access to \fB/dev/ipauth\fR,
\fB/dev/ipl\fR, and \fB/dev/ipstate\fR. The default permissions of these files
require \fBipnat\fR to be run as root for all operations.
.sp
.LP
\fBipnat\fR's use is restricted through access to \fB/dev/ipnat\fR. The default
permissions of \fB/dev/ipnat\fR require \fBipnat\fR to be run as root for all
operations.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Delete all entries in the current NAT rule listing (NAT rules).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Turn debug mode on. Causes a hex dump of filter rules to be generated as it
processes each one.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Delete all active entries in the current NAT translation table (currently
active NAT mappings).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Parse specified file for rules to be added or removed from the IP NAT.
\fIfilename\fR can be stdin.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Print number of hits for each MAP/Redirect filter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Show the list of current NAT table entry mappings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prevents \fBipf\fR from doing anything, such as making ioctl calls, which might
alter the currently running kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Disable both IP address-to-hostname resolution and port number-to-service name
resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Remove matching NAT rules rather than add them to the internal lists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Retrieve and display NAT statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Turn verbose mode on. Displays information relating to rule processing and
active rules/table entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Operate on the in-zone IP NAT for the specified zone. If neither this option
nor \fB-G\fR is specified, the current zone is used. This command is only
available in the Global Zone. See \fBZONES\fR in \fBipf\fR(1m) for more
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Operate on the global zone controlled IP NAT for the specified zone. If
neither this option nor \fB-z\fR is specified, the current zone is used. This
command is only available in the Global Zone. See \fBZONES\fR in \fBipf\fR(1m)
for more information.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/ipnat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Link to IP Filter pseudo device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/kmem\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Special file that provides access to virtual address space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ipf/ipnat.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Location of \fBipnat\fR startup configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/ipfilter/examples/\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains numerous IP Filter examples.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBipf\fR(1M), \fBipfstat\fR(1M), \fBipnat\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBzones(5)\fR
