'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH KADB 1M "Jul 2, 2004"
.SH NAME
kadb \- a kernel debugger
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "SPARC"
.LP
.nf
\fBok\fR boot \fIdevice_specifier\fR kadb [\fB-d\fR] [\fIboot-flags\fR]
.fi

.SS "x86"
.LP
.nf
\fBselect\fR (b)oot or (i)nterpreter: b kadb [\fB-d\fR] [\fIboot-flags\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBkadb\fR, an interactive kernel debugger, has been replaced by \fBkmdb\fR(1).
For backwards compatibility, the methods used to load \fBkadb\fR will be
interpreted as requests to load \fBkmdb\fR(1). Unlike with the compatibility
link from \fBadb\fR(1) to \fBmdb\fR(1), \fBkmdb\fR(1) will always load in its
native user interface mode, regardless of the name used to load it.
.sp
.LP
\fBkmdb\fR(1) is based on \fBmdb\fR(1), and thus shares \fBmdb\fR's user
interface style and feature set. The \fBmdb\fR(1) man page describes the
features and operation of \fBmdb\fR. The \fBkmdb\fR(1) man page describes the
differences between \fBmdb\fR and \fBkmdb\fR. This man page describes the major
changes and incompatibilities between \fBkadb\fR and \fBkmdb\fR.
.sp
.LP
Consult the \fISolaris Modular Debugger Guide\fR for a detailed description of
both \fBmdb\fR and \fBkmdb\fR.
.SS "Major changes"
.sp
.LP
This section briefly lists the major differences between \fBkadb\fR and
\fBkmdb\fR. It is not intended to be exhaustive.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDebugger Loading and Unloading\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBkmdb\fR(1) may be loaded at boot, as with \fBkadb\fR. It may also be loaded
after boot, thus allowing for kernel debugging and execution control without
requiring a system reboot. If \fBkmdb\fR(1) is loaded after boot, it may be
unloaded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmdb Feature Set\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The features introduced by \fBmdb\fR(1), including access to kernel type data,
debugger commands (dcmds), debugger modules (dmods), and enhanced execution
control facilities, are available under \fBkmdb\fR(1). Support for changing the
representative CPU (:x) is available for both SPARC and x86. Furthermore, full
execution-control facilities are available after the representative CPU has
been changed.
.RE

.SS "Significant Incompatibilities"
.sp
.LP
This section lists the significant features that have changed incompatibly
between \fBkadb\fR and \fBkmdb\fR(1). It is not intended to be exhaustive. All
\fBkmdb\fR(1) commands referenced here are fully described in the \fBkmdb\fR(1)
man page. A description as well as examples can be found in the \fISolaris
Modular Debugger Guide\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDeferred Breakpoints\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The kadb-style "module#symbol:b" syntax is not supported under \fBkmdb\fR(1).
Instead, use "::bp module`symbol".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBWatchpoints\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ::wp dcmd is the preferred way to set watchpoint with \fBkmdb\fR. Various
options are available to control the type of watchpoint set, including \fB-p\fR
for physical watchpoints (SPARC only), and \fB-i\fR for I/O port watchpoints
(x86 only). $l is not supported, therefore, the watchpoint size must be
specified for each watchpoint created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBAccess to I/O Ports (x86 only)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The commands used to access I/O ports under \fBkadb\fR have been replaced with
the ::in and ::out dcmds. These two dcmds allow both read and write of all I/O
port sizes supported by \fBkadb\fR.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBadb\fR(1), \fBmdb\fR(1), \fBkmdb\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Modular Debugger Guide\fR
