'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LABELIT_UDFS 1M "Oct 31, 2000"
.SH NAME
labelit_udfs \- provide and print labels for udf file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlabelit\fR \fB-F \fR udfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR
     [\fIfsname\fR \fIvolume\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlabelit\fR command writes labels on an unmounted disk that contains a
universal disk file (\fBudf\fR) system. These labels can be used to identify
volumes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIgeneric_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Specify \fIgeneric_options\fR supported by the generic \fBlabelit\fR command.
See \fBlabelit\fR(1M) for descriptions of supported options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Specify udfs-file-system-specific options in a  comma-separated list with no
intervening spaces. The following \fIspecific_options\fR are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlvinfo1=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specify information to be inserted in the \fBLVInfo1\fR field of the
Implementation Use Volume Descriptor. Information in \fBLVInfo1\fR is generally
used to identify the person creating the file system. The maximum length of the
string specified is 35 bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlvinfo2=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specify information to be inserted into the \fBLVInfo2\fR field of the
Implementation Use Volume Descriptor. Information in \fBLVInfo2\fR is generally
used to identify the organization responsible for creating the file system. The
maximum length of the string specified is 35 bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlvinfo3=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Specify information to be inserted into the \fBLVInfo3\fR field of the
Implementation Use Volume Descriptor. Information in \fBLVInfo3\fR is generally
used to identify the contact information for the medium. The maximum length of
the string specified is 35 bytes.
.RE

.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIspecial\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Specify \fIspecial\fR as the physical disk slice, for   example,
\fB/dev/rdsk/c0t0d0s6\fR.   The device can not be on a remote machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfsname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Specify \fIfsname\fR as the mount point, (for example, \fBroot\fR, \fBu1\fR,
and so forth), of the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvolume\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Specify \fIvolume\fR as the physical volume name.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If none of the options (\fIfsname\fR, \fIvolume\fR, \fIspecific_options\fR) is
specified, \fBlabelit\fR prints the current values of \fIfsname\fR,
\fIvolume\fR, \fBLVInfo1\fR, \fBLVInfo2\fR and \fBLVInfo3\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB0\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlabelit\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
