'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LABELIT_HSFS 1M "Mar 20, 1992"
.SH NAME
labelit_hsfs \- provide and print labels for hsfs file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/labelit\fR \fB-F\fR hsfs [\fIgeneric_options\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] \fIspecial\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBlabelit\fR can be used to provide labels for unmounted CD-ROM images
(CD-ROMs may not be labeled, as they are read-only media).
.sp
.LP
\fIgeneric_options\fR are options supported by the generic  \fBlabelit\fR
command.
.sp
.LP
If no \fIspecific_options\fR are specified, \fBlabelit\fR prints the current
value of all label fields.
.sp
.LP
The \fIspecial\fR name should be the physical disk section (for example,
\fB/dev/dsk/c0d0s6\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Use one or more of the following  \fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR pairs separated by
commas (with no intervening spaces) to specify values for specific label
fields. According to the ISO 9660 specification, only certain sets of
characters may be used to fill in these labels.  Thus, ``d-characters'' below
refers to the characters `A' through `Z', the digits `0' through `9', and the
`_' (underscore) character.  ``a-characters'' below refers to `A' through `Z',
`0' through `9', space, and the following characters: !"%&'()*+,-./:;<=>?_.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBabsfile=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Abstract file identifier, d-characters, 37 characters maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBapplid=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Application identifier, d-characters, 128 characters maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbibfile=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Bibliographic file identifier, d-characters, 37 characters maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcopyfile=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Copyright file identifier, d-characters, 128 maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprepid=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Data preparer identifier, d-characters, 128 maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpubid=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Publisher identifier, d-characters, 128 maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsysid=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
System identifier, a-characters, 32 maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvolid=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Volume identifier, d-characters, 32 maximum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvolsetid=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Volume set identifier, d-characters, 128 maximum.
.RE

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlabelit\fR(1M), \fBvolcopy\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
