'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LPGET 1M "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
lpget \- get printing configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlpget\fR [\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR] [\fIdestination\fR... | list]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBlpget\fR utility reads printing configuration information from the
configuration databases in \fB$HOME/.printers\fR, \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR,
and \fBprinters.conf.byname\fR. This
information, called a \fIconfiguration report\fR, is displayed to the standard
output. See \fBprinters\fR(4) and \fBprinters.conf\fR(4) for information about
the printer configuration databases.
.sp
.LP
\fBlpget\fR displays a configuration report for all keys for the specified
destination or destinations by default. Use the \fB-k\fR option  to display a
configuration report for specific keys. Use the \fBlist\fR operand to display a
configuration report for all configured destinations.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIkey\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Displays a configuration report for \fIkey\fR. See \fBprinters.conf\fR(4) for
information about specifying  \fIkey\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdestination\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Displays a configuration report for  \fIdestination\fR. Destination can be
either a printer of a class of printers. See \fBlpadmin\fR(1M). Specify
\fIdestination\fR using atomic or POSIX-style
(\fIserver\fR\fB:\fR\fIdestination\fR) names. See \fBprinters.conf \fR(4) for
information regarding the naming conventions for atomic names and
\fBstandards\fR(5) for information concerning POSIX.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Displays a configuration report for all configured destinations.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisplaying a Configuration Report for the \fBbsdaddr\fR Key
.sp
.LP
The following example displays a configuration report for the  \fBbsdaddr\fR
key for printer \fBcatalpa\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlpget -k bsdaddr catalpa\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRA Configuration Report for all Keys for all Configured
Destinations
.sp
.LP
The following example displays a configuration report for all keys for all
configured destinations.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBlpget list\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/printers.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
System printer configuration database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.printers\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 24n
User-configurable printer database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprinters.conf.byname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
\fBNIS\fR version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability Level	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBldap\fR(1), \fBlp\fR(1), \fBlpc\fR(1B), \fBlpq\fR(1B), \fBlpr\fR(1B),
\fBlpstat\fR(1), \fBlpadmin\fR(1M), \fBlpset\fR(1M), \fBprinters\fR(4),
\fBprinters.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.LP
Be mindful of the following if the LDAP database is used as the name service.
If the \fBldapclient\fR(1M) server is a replica LDAP server, LDAP printer
database updates may not appear immediately, as the replica server may not not
have been updated by the master server and can be out of sync. For example, a
printer that you deleted by using \fBlpset\fR(1M) may still appear in the
printer list you display with \fBlpget\fR until the replica is updated from the
master. Replica servers vary as to how often they are updated from the master.
Refer to the \fI\fR for more information on LDAP replication.
