'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LUXADM 1M "May 13, 2017"
.SH NAME
luxadm \- administer Sun Fire 880 storage subsystem and FC_AL devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBluxadm\fR [\fIoptions\fR]... \fIsubcommand\fR [\fIoptions\fR]... \fIenclosure\fR
     [,\fIdev\fR] | \fIpathname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBluxadm\fR program is an administrative command that manages the
\fBSENA\fR, Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and individual Fiber
Channel Arbitrated Loop (\fBFC_AL\fR) devices. \fBluxadm\fR performs a variety
of control and query tasks depending on the command line arguments and options
used.
.sp
.LP
The command line must contain a subcommand. The command line may also contain
options, usually at least one enclosure name or pathname, and other parameters
depending on the subcommand. You need specify only as many characters as are
required to uniquely identify a subcommand.
.sp
.LP
Specify the device that a subcommand interacts with by entering a pathname. For
the \fBSENA\fR subsystem, a disk device or enclosure services controller may
instead be specified by entering the World Wide Name (\fBWWN\fR) for the device
or a port to the device. The device may also be specified by entering the name
of the \fBSENA\fR enclosure, and an optional identifier for the particular
device in the enclosure. The individual \fBFC_AL\fR devices may be specified by
entering the \fBWWN\fR for the device or a port to the device.
.SS "Pathname"
.LP
Specify the device or controller by either a complete physical pathname or a
complete logical pathname.
.sp
.LP
For \fBSENA,\fR a typical physical pathname for a device is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/sbus@1f,0/SUNW,socal@1,0/sf@0,0/ssd@w2200002037000f96,
         0:a,raw
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For all \fBSENA IBs\fR (Interface Boards) and Sun Fire 880 SES device
controllers on the system, a logical link to the physical paths is kept in the
directory \fB/dev/es\fR. An example of a logical link is \fB/dev/es/ses0\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBWWN\fR may be used in place of the pathname to select an \fBFC_AL\fR
device, \fBSENA\fR subsystem IB, or Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
The \fBWWN\fR is a unique 16 hexadecimal digit value that specifies either the
port used to access the device or the device itself. A typical \fBWWN\fR value
is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
2200002037000f96
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See NOTES for more information on the \fBWWN\fR formats.
.sp
.LP
For a disk in a Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, a typical physical
pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/pci@8,600000/SUNW,qlc@2/fp@0,0/ssd@w2100002037a6303c,0:a
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and a typical logical pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/rdsk/c2t8d0s2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For individual FC_AL devices, a typical physical pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/devices/sbus@3.0/SUNW,socal@d,10000/sf@0,0/ssd@w2200002037049fc3,0:a,raw
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and a typical logical pathname is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/rdsk/c1t0d0s2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Enclosure"
.LP
For \fBSENA,\fR a device may be identified by its enclosure name and slotname:
.br
.in +2
\fIbox_name\fR[\fB,f\fR\fIslot_number\fR]
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fIbox_name\fR[\fB,r\fR\fIslot_number\fR]
.in -2
.sp
.LP
\fIbox_name\fR is the name of the \fBSENA\fR enclosure, as specified by the
\fBenclosure_name\fR subcommand. When used without the optional
\fIslot_number\fR parameter, the \fIbox_name\fR identifies the \fBSENA\fR
subsystem \fBIB.\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBf\fR or \fBr\fR specifies the front or rear slots in the \fBSENA\fR
enclosure.
.sp
.LP
\fIslot_number\fR specifies the slot number of the device in the \fBSENA\fR
enclosure, \fB0-6\fR or \fB0-10\fR.
.sp
.LP
For a Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, a device may also be identified
by its enclosure name and slot name. However, there is only one set of disks:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIbox_name\fR[,\fIsslot_number\fR]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fIbox_name\fR is the name of the Sun Fire 880 enclosure, as specified by the
\fBenclosure_name\fR subcommand. When used without the optional
\fIslot_number\fR parameter, \fIbox_name\fR identifies the Sun Fire 880
internal storage subsystem enclosure services device. Use \fIs\fR to specify
the disk slot number in the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, \fB0\fR -
\fB11\fR.
.sp
.LP
See \fBdisks\fR(1M) and \fBdevlinks\fR(1M) for additional information on
logical names for disks and subsystems.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported by all subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Expert mode. This option is not recommended for the novice user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Verbose mode.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Options that are specific to particular subcommands are described with the
subcommand in the \fBUSAGE\fR section.
.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIenclosure\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fIbox_name\fR of the \fBSENA\fR or Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfibre_channel_HBA_port\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path to the host controller port. A typical path is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 /devices/pci@8,600000/pci@1/SUNW,qlc@4/fp@0,0:devctl
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The logical or physical path of a \fBSENA IB\fR, Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem, or disk device. \fIpathname\fR can also be the \fBWWN\fR of a
\fBSENA IB\fR, \fBSENA\fR disk, or individual \fBFC_AL\fR device.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Subcommands"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisplay\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdisplay\fR \fB-p\fR \fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdisplay\fR \fB-r\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdisplay\fR \fB-v\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays enclosure or device specific data.
.sp
Subsystem data consists of enclosure environmental sense information and status
for all subsystem devices, including disks.
.sp
Disk data consists of inquiry, capacity, and configuration information.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays performance information for the device or subsystem specified by
\fIpathname\fR. This option only applies to subsystems that accumulate
performance information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays error information for the \fBFC_AL\fR device specified by the
pathname, or, if the path is a \fBSENA,\fR for all devices on the loop. The
\fB-r\fR option only applies to \fBSENA\fR subsystems and individual
\fBFC_AL\fR devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays in verbose mode, including mode sense data.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdownload\fR [ \fB-s\fR ] [ \fB-f\fR \fIfilename_path\fR ]
\fIenclosure\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Download the prom image pointed to the SENA subsystem Interface Board unit or
the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem specified by the enclosure or
pathname.
.sp
When the \fBSENA's\fR download is complete, the \fBSENA\fR will be reset and
the downloaded code executed. If no filename is specified, the default prom
image will be used. The default prom image for the \fBSENA\fR is in the
directory \fBusr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES\fR and is named \fBibfirmware\fR
.sp
When the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem's download is complete, the
subsystem resets and the downloaded code begins execution. The default firmware
image for the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem is in:
\fB/usr/platform/SUNW,Sun-Fire-880/lib/images/int_fcbpl_fw\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Save. The \fB-s\fR option is used to save the downloaded firmware in the
FEPROM. If \fB-s\fR is not specified, the downloaded firmware will not be saved
across power cycles.
.sp
The \fB-s\fR option does not apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem as it always stores downloaded firmware in the flash memory.
.sp
When using the \fB-s\fR option, the \fBdownload\fR subcommand modifies the
\fBFEPROM\fR on the subsystem and should be used with \fIcaution\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBenclosure_name\fR \fInew_name\fR \fIenclosure\fR | \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the enclosure name of the enclosure or enclosures specified by the
enclosure or pathname. The new name (\fInew_name\fR) must be 16 or less
characters. Only alphabetic or numeric characters are acceptable. This
subcommand applies only to the SENA and the Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfailover primary\fR | \fBsecondary\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Select which Sun Storage T3 storage array partner group controller accesses a
given logical volume. If \fBprimary\fR is specified, the logical volume is
accessed through the primary controller. If \fBsecondary\fR is specified, the
logical volume is accessed through the secondary controller specified by
\fIpathname\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfcal_s_download\fR [ \fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Download the fcode contained in the file \fIfcode-file\fR into \fIall\fR the
\fBFC100/S\fR Sbus Cards. This command is interactive and expects user
confirmation before downloading the fcode.
.sp
Use \fBfcal_s_download\fR \fIonly\fR in single-user mode. Using
\fBfcal_s_download\fR to update a host adapter while there is \fBI/O\fR
activity through that adapter \fIwill\fR cause the adapter to reset. Newly
updated FCode will not be executed or visible until a system reboot.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
When invoked without the \fB-f\fR option, the current version of the fcode in
each \fBFC100/S\fR Sbus card is printed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfcode_download\fR \fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBfcode_download\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdir-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Locate the installed \fBFC/S\fR, \fBFC100/S, FC100/P\fR, or \fBFC100/2P\fR host
bus adapter cards and download the FCode files in \fIdir-name\fR to the
appropriate cards. The command determines the correct card for each type of
file, and is interactive. User confirmation is required before downloading the
FCode to each device.
.sp
Use \fBfcode_download\fR to load FCode only in single-user mode. Using
\fBfcode_download\fR to update a host adapter while there is \fBI/O\fR activity
through that adapter causes the adapter to reset. Newly updated FCode will not
be executed or visible until a system reboot.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdir-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Download the FCode files contained in the directory \fIdir-name\fR to the
appropriate adapter cards.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prints the current version of FCode loaded on each card. No download is
performed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinquiry\fR \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR ]\|.\|.\|.\| |
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the inquiry information for the selected device specified by the
enclosure or pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinsert_device\fR [ \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|. ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assist the user in the hot insertion of a new device or a chain of new devices.
Refer to \fBNOTES\fR for limitations on hotplug operations. This subcommand
applies only to the \fBSENA\fR, Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and
individual FC_AL drives. For the \fBSENA\fR, if more than one enclosure has
been specified, concurrent hot insertions on multiple busses can be performed.
With no arguments to the subcommand, entire enclosures or individual
\fBFC_AL\fR drives can be inserted. For the \fBSENA\fR or the Sun Fire 880
internal storage subsystem, this subcommand guides the user interactively
through the hot insertion steps of a new device or chain of devices. If a list
of disks was entered it will ask the user to verify the list of devices to be
inserted is correct, at which point the user can continue or quit. It then
interactively asks the user to insert the disk(s) or enclosure(s) and then
creates and displays the logical pathnames for the devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBled\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|.\|| \fIpathname\fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the current state of the \fBLED\fR associated with the disk specified
by the enclosure or pathname. This subcommand only applies to subsystems that
support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBled_blink\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|.\||
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests the subsystem to start blinking the \fBLED\fR associated with the disk
specified by the enclosure or pathname. This subcommand only applies to
subsystems that support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBled_off\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\|.\|.\|.\||
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests the subsystem to disable (turn off) the \fBLED\fR associated with the
disk specified by the enclosure or pathname. On a \fBSENA\fR subsystem, this
may or may not cause the \fBLED\fR to turn off or stop blinking depending on
the state of the \fBSENA\fR subsystem. Refer to the \fBSENA\fR Array
Installation and Service Manual (p/n 802-7573). This subcommand only applies to
subsystems that support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBled_on\fR \fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Requests the subsystem to enable (turn on) the \fBLED\fR associated with the
disk specified by the pathname. This subcommand only applies to subsystems that
support this functionality.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpower_off\fR [ \fB-F\fR ] \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|. |
\fIpathname\fR \|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When a \fBSENA\fR is addressed, this subcommand causes the \fBSENA\fR subsystem
to go into the power-save mode. The \fBSENA\fR drives are not available when in
the power-save mode. When a drive in a \fBSENA\fR is addressed the drive is set
to the drive off/unmated state. In the drive off/unmated state, the drive is
spun down (stopped) and in bypass mode. This command does not apply to the Sun
Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The force option only applies to the \fBSENA.\fR Instructs \fBluxadm\fR to
attempt to power off one or more devices even if those devices are being used
by this host (and are, therefore, busy).
.sp
\fBWarning\fR: Powering off a device which has data that is currently being
used will cause unpredictable results. Users should attempt to power off the
device normally (without \fB-F\fR) first, only resorting to this option when
sure of the consequences of overriding normal checks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpower_on\fR \fIenclosure\fR[\fB,\fR\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes the \fBSENA\fR subsystem to go out of the power-save mode, when this
subcommand is addressed to a \fBSENA.\fR. When this subcommand is addressed to
a drive the drive is set to its normal start-up state. This command does not
apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprobe\fR [ \fB-p\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Finds and displays information about all attached \fBSENA\fR subsystems, Sun
Fire 880 internal storage subsystems, and individual \fBFC_AL\fR devices,
including the logical pathname, the \fBWWNs,\fR and enclosure names. This
subcommand warns the user if it finds different \fBSENAs\fR with the same
enclosure names.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Includes the physical pathname in the display.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBqlgc_s_download\fR [ \fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR ]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Download the FCode contained in the file \fIfcode-file\fR into all the
\fBFC100/P\fR, \fBFC100/2P\fR \fBPCI\fR host adapter cards. This command is
interactive and expects user confirmation before downloading the FCode to each
device. Only use \fBqlgc_s_download\fR in single-user mode. Using
\fBqlgc_s_download\fR to update a host adapter while there is\fB I/O\fR
activity through that adapter will cause the adapter to reset. Newly updated
FCode will not be executed or visible until a system reboot.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfcode-file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
When invoked without the \fB-f\fR option, the current version of the FCode in
each \fBFC100/P\fR,\fB FC100/2P PCI\fR card is printed.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrelease\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Release a reservation held on the specified disk. The pathname should be the
physical or logical pathname for the disk.
.sp
This subcommand is included for historical and diagnostic purposes only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBremove_device\fR [ \fB-F\fR ] \fIenclosure\fR[,\fIdev\fR]\|.\|.\|.\||
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assists the user in hot removing a device or a chain of devices. This
subcommand can also be used to remove entire enclosures. This subcommand
applies to the \fBSENA\fR, Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and
individual \fBFC_AL\fR drives. Refer to \fBNOTES\fR for limitations on hotplug
operations. For the \fBSENA\fR, Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and
individual \fBFC_AL\fR devices, this subcommand guides the user through the hot
removal of a device or devices. During execution it will ask the user to verify
the list of devices to be removed is correct, at which point the user can
continue or quit. It then prepares the disk(s) or enclosure(s) for removal and
interactively asks the user to remove the disk(s) or enclosure(s).
.sp
For Multi-Hosted disk, the steps taken are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Issue the \fBluxadm\fR \fBremove_device\fR command on the first host. When
prompted to continue, wait.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Issue the \fBluxadm\fR \fBremove_device\fR command on the secondary hosts. When
prompted to continue, wait.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Continue with the \fBremove_device\fR command on the first host. Remove the
device when prompted to do so.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Complete the \fBluxadm\fR \fBremove_device\fR command on the additional hosts.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Instructs \fBluxadm\fR to attempt to hot plug one or more devices even if those
devices are being used by this host (and are, therefore, \fBbusy\fR or
\fBreserved\fR), to \fBforce\fR the hotplugging operation.
.sp
\fBWarning\fR: Removal of a device which has data that is currently being used
will cause unpredictable results. Users should attempt to hotplug normally
(without \fB-F\fR) first, only resorting to this option when sure of the
consequences of overriding normal hotplugging checks.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreserve\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reserve the specified disk for exclusive use by the issuing host. The pathname
used should be the physical or logical pathname for the disk.
.sp
This subcommand is included for historical and diagnostic purposes only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBset_boot_dev\fR [ \fB-y\fR ] \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the boot-device variable in the system \fBPROM\fR to the physical device
name specified by \fIpathname\fR, which can be a block special device or the
pathname of the directory on which the boot file system is mounted. The command
normally runs interactively requesting confirmation for setting the default
boot-device in the \fBPROM\fR. The \fB-y\fR option can be used to run it
non-interactively, in which case no confirmation is requested or required.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstart\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Spin up the specified disk(s) in a SENA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstop\fR \fIpathname\fR...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Spin down the specified disks in a SENA.
.RE

.SS "SENA, Sun Fire 880 Internal Storage Subsystem, and Individual FC_AL Drive Expert Mode Subcommands"
.LP
The following subcommands are for expert use only, and are applicable only to
the \fBSENA\fR, Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem, and fiber channel
loops. They should only be used by users that are knowledgeable about the
\fBSENA\fR subsystem and fiber channel loops.
.sp
.LP
If you specify a disk to an expert subcommand that operates on a bus, the
subcommand operates on the bus to which the specified disk is attached.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fBbypass\fR \fB[\fR\fB-ab\fR\fB]\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fBbypass\fR \fB-f\fR \fIenclosure\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request the enclosure services controller to set the LRC (Loop Redundancy
Circuit) to the bypassed state for the port and device specified.
.sp
This subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Bypass port \fBa\fR of the device specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Bypass port \fBb\fR of the device specified.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fBdump_map\fR \fIfibre_channel_HBA_port\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display WWN data for a target device or host bus adapter on the specified fibre
channel port. If there are no target devices on the specified port, an error is
returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fBenable\fR \fB[\fR\fB-ab\fR\fB]\fR \fIenclosure\fR,\fIdev\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fBenable\fR \fB-f\fR \fIenclosure\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request the enclosure services controller to set the LRC (Loop Redundancy
Circuit) to the enabled state for the port and device specified.
.sp
This subcommand supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Enable port \fBa\fR of the device specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Enable port \fBb\fR of the device specified.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBforcelip\fR \fIenclosure\fR[\fB,\fR\fIdev\fR] \|.\|.\|. |
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force the link to reinitialize, using the Loop Initialization Primitive
(\fBLIP\fR) sequence. The enclosure or pathname can specify any device on the
loop. Use the pathname to specify a specific path for multiple loop
configurations.
.sp
This is an expert only command and should be used with caution. It will reset
all ports on the loop.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBrdls\fR \fIenclosure\fR[\fB,\fR\fIdev\fR] \|.\|.\|. |
\fIpathname\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read and display the link error status information for all available devices on
the loop that contains the device specified by the enclosure or pathname.
.RE

.SS "Other Expert Mode Subcommands"
.LP
See \fBNOTES\fR for limitations of these subcommands. They should only be used
by users that are knowledgeable about the systems they are managing.
.sp
.LP
These commands do not apply to the Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBbus_getstate\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Get and display the state of the specified bus.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBbus_quiesce\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Quiesce the specified bus.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBbus_reset\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Reset the specified bus only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBbus_resetall\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Reset the specified bus and all devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBbus_unquiesce\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Unquiesce the specified bus. the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBdev_getstate\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Get and display the state of the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBdev_reset\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Reset the specified device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBoffline\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Take the specified device offline.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fBonline\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Put the specified device online.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisplaying the \fBSENA\fRs and Individual FC_AL Devices on a
System
.sp
.LP
The following example finds and displays all of the \fBSENA\fRs and individual
\fBFC_AL\fR devices on a system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm probe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying a \fBSENA\fR or Sun Fire 880 Internal Storage
Subsystem
.sp
.LP
The following example displays a \fBSENA\fR or Sun Fire 880 internal storage
subsystem:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display /dev/es/ses0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDisplaying Two Subsystems
.sp
.LP
The following example displays two subsystems using the enclosure names:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display BOB system1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRDisplaying Information about the First Disk
.sp
.LP
The following example displays information about the first disk in the front of
the enclosure named \fBBOB.\fR Use \fBf\fR to specify the front disks. Use
\fBr\fR to specify the rear disks.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display BOB,f0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRDisplaying Information on a Sun Fire 880 Internal Storage
Subsystem
.sp
.LP
The Sun Fire 880 internal storage subsystem has only one set of disks. In this
case, use \fIs\fR to specify the slot:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display BOB,s0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRDisplaying Information about a \fBSENA\fR disk, an Enclosure,
or an Individual \fBFC_AL\fR Drive
.sp
.LP
The following example displays information about a \fBSENA\fR disk, an
enclosure, or an individual \fBFC_AL\fR drive with the port \fBWWN\fR of
\fB2200002037001246\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display 2200002037001246\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRUsing Unique Characters to Issue a Subcommand
.sp
.LP
The following example uses only as many characters as are required to uniquely
identify a subcommand:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm disp BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRDisplaying Error Information
.sp
.LP
The following example displays error information about the loop that the
enclosure \fBBOB\fR is on:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm display \fR\fB-r\fR\fB BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 9 \fRDownloading New Firmware into the Interface Board
.sp
.LP
The following example downloads new firmware into the Interface Board in the
enclosure named \fBBOB\fR (using the default path for the file to download):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm download \fR\fB-s\fR\fB BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 10 \fRDisplaying Information from the \fBSCSI\fR Inquiry Command
.sp
.LP
The following example displays information from the \fBSCSI\fR inquiry command
from all individual disks on the system, using only as many characters as
necessary to uniquely identify the inquiry subcommand:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm inq /dev/rdsk/c?t?d?s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 11 \fRHotplugging
.sp
.LP
The following example hotplugs a new drive into the first slot in the front of
the enclosure named \fBBOB:\fR

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm insert_device BOB,f0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example hotplugs a new drive into the first slot in the Sun Fire
880 internal storage subsystem named SF880-1:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm insert_device SF880-1,s0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 12 \fRRunning an Expert Subcommand
.sp
.LP
The following example runs an expert subcommand. The subcommand forces a loop
initialization on the loop that the enclosure \fBBOB\fR is on:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBluxadm \fR\fB-e\fR\fB forcelip BOB\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 13 \fRUsing the Expert Mode Hot Plugging Subcommands
.sp
.LP
An example of using the expert mode hot plugging subcommands to hot remove a
disk follows. See \fBNOTES\fR for hot plugging limitations.

.sp
.LP
The first step reserves the SCSI device so that it can't be accessed by way of
its second SCSI bus:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBluxadm reserve /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 14 \fRTaking the Disk to be Removed Offline
.sp
.LP
The next two steps take the disk to be removed offline then quiesce the bus:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBluxadm \fR\fB-e\fR\fB offline /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
example# \fBluxadm -e bus_quiesce /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 15 \fRUnquiescing the Bus
.sp
.LP
The user then removes the disk and continues by unquiescing the bus, putting
the disk back online, then unreserving it:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBluxadm \fR\fB-e\fR\fB bus_unquiesce /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
example# \fBluxadm \fR\fB-e\fR\fB online /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
example# \fBluxadm release /dev/rdsk/c1t8d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for a description of the \fBLANG\fR environment variable
that affects the execution of \fBluxadm\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBusr/lib/firmware/fc_s/fc_s_fcode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBusr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/ibfirmware\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdevlinks\fR(1M), \fBdisks\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBses\fR(7D)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Currently, only some device drivers
support hot plugging. If hot plugging is attempted on a disk or bus where it is
not supported, an error message of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
luxadm: can't acquire "PATHNAME": No such file or directory
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
will be displayed.
.sp
.LP
You must be careful not to quiesce a bus that contains the root or the
\fB/usr\fR filesystems or any swap data. If you do quiesce such a bus a
deadlock can result, requiring a system reboot.
