'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  Copyright 1989 AT&T  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MAKEDBM 1M "Aug 17, 1999"
.SH NAME
makedbm \- make a dbm file, or get a text file from a dbm file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmakedbm\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-E\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIyp_input_file\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIyp_output_name\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIyp_domain_name\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fIyp_master_name\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIdelimiter\fR]
     [\fB-D\fR \fInumber_of_delimiters\fR] \fIinfile\fR \fIoutfile\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmakedbm\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIdbmfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmakedbm\fR utility takes the  \fIinfile\fR and converts it to a pair of
files in \fBndbm\fR format (see \fBndbm\fR(3C)), namely
\fIoutfile\fR\fB\&.pag\fR and \fIoutfile\fR\fB\&.dir.\fR Each line of the input
file is converted to a single \fBdbm\fR record. All characters up to the first
\fBTAB\fR or \fBSPACE\fR form the key, and the rest of the line is the data. If
a line ends with `\e' (backslash), the data for that record is continued on to
the next line. \fBmakedbm\fR does not treat `#' (pound-sign) as a special
character.
.sp
.LP
Because  \fBmakedbm\fR is mainly used in generating \fBdbm\fR files for the
\fBNIS\fR name service, it generates a special entry with the key
\fIyp_last_modified\fR, which is the date of \fIinfile\fR (or the current time,
if \fIinfile\fR is `\(mi').  The entries that have keys with the prefix
\fIyp_\fR are interpreted by \fBNIS\fR server utilities.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Insert the  \fBYP_INTERDOMAIN\fR into the output.  This key causes
\fBypserv\fR(1M) to use  \fBDNS\fR for host name and address lookups for hosts
not found in the maps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI yp_domain_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Create a special entry with the key \fIyp_domain_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fInumber_of delimiters\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Specify \fInumber_of_delimiters\fR to skip before forming the key.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Delimiters are escaped.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fI yp_input_file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Create a special entry with the key \fIyp_input_file\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Lower case. Convert the keys of the given map to lower case, so that, for
example, host name matches succeed independent of upper or lower case
distinctions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI yp_master_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Create a special entry with the key \fIyp_master_name\fR. If no master host
name is specified, \fIyp_master_name\fR is set to the local host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI yp_output_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Create a special entry with the key \fIyp_output_name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Secure map. Accept connections from secure  \fBNIS\fR networks only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIdelimiter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Specify the \fIdelimiter\fR to use instead of the default delimiter for forming
the key.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fI dbmfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Undo a \fBdbm\fR file.  Prints out the file in text format, one entry per line,
with a single space separating keys from values.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Input file for \fBmakedbm\fR. If \fIinfile\fR is `\fB\(mi\fR\&' (dash), the
standard input is read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoutfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
One of two output files in \fBndbm\fR format: \fIoutfile\fR\fB\&.pag\fR and
\fIoutfile\fR\fB\&.dir.\fR
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBypserv\fR(1M), \fBndbm\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
