'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MEDSTAT 1M "Jan 18, 2001"
.SH NAME
medstat \- check the status of mediator hosts for a given diskset
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/medstat\fR [\fB-q\fR] \fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If a specified diskset has been configured for mediators, \fBmedstat\fR
attempts to contact these hosts to see if they are accessible and returns the
results of the communication.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This optional argument disables the printing of informative text. When used
with \fB-q\fR, \fBmedstat\fR still prints error messages and returns a result
code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fB\fIsetname\fR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies the name of a diskset on which \fBmedstat\fR will work.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR Checking diskset
.sp
.LP
This example checks the mediator hosts for the selected diskset.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# medstat -s relo-red
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The name of the diskset is \fBrelo-red\fR. The \fBmedstat\fR command prints the
status for each mediator host. Additionally, if the mediator quorum is met,
either through a ``golden'' mediator host or because half+1 of the mediator
hosts respond, the exit code is 0. If the quorum is not met, then the exit code
is 1. If no mediator hosts have been configured for the named diskset, the exit
code is 2. The status field will contain one of the following values:
Unreachable, Bad, Fatal, or Ok, where Unreachable indicates an
RPC/communication problem, Bad indicates an error in the mediator data, Fatal
indicates any other error condition, and Ok indicates no error conditions.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/lvm/meddb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Contains the mediator data for a host that has been selected as a mediator
host.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB>0\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmetaclear\fR(1M), \fBmetadb\fR(1M), \fBmetadetach\fR(1M), \fBmetahs\fR(1M),
\fBmetainit\fR(1M), \fBmetaoffline\fR(1M), \fBmetaonline\fR(1M),
\fBmetaparam\fR(1M), \fBmetareplace\fR(1M), \fBmetaroot\fR(1M),
\fBmetaset\fR(1M), \fBmetastat\fR(1M), \fBmetasync\fR(1M), \fBmetattach\fR(1M),
\fBmd.cf\fR(4), \fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBmddb.cf\fR(4), \fBmeddb\fR(4),
\fBmediator\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
Sun Cluster documentation, \fISolaris Volume Manager Administration Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This command is designed for use in the high availability product.
