'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH METAREPLACE 1M "Mar 26, 2006"
.SH NAME
metareplace \- enable or replace components of submirrors or RAID5 metadevices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metareplace\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metareplace\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-e\fR \fImirror\fR \fIcomponent\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metareplace\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fImirror\fR \fIcomponent-old\fR \fIcomponent-new\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metareplace\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-e\fR \fIRAID\fR \fIcomponent\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metareplace\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] [\fB-f\fR] \fIRAID\fR \fIcomponent-old\fR \fIcomponent-new\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetareplace\fR command is used to enable or replace components (slices)
within a submirror or a RAID5 metadevice.
.sp
.LP
When you replace a component, the \fBmetareplace\fR command automatically
starts resyncing the new component with the rest of the metadevice. When the
resync completes, the replaced component becomes readable and writable. If the
failed component has been hot spare replaced, the hot spare is placed in the
available state and made available for other hot spare replacements.
.sp
.LP
Note that the new component must be large enough to replace the old component.
.sp
.LP
A component may be in one of several states. The \fBLast\fR \fBErred\fR and the
\fBMaintenance\fR states require action. Always replace components in the
\fBMaintenance\fR state first, followed by a resync and validation of data.
After components requiring maintenance are fixed, validated, and resynced,
components in the \fBLast\fR \fBErred\fR state should be replaced. To avoid
data loss, it is always best to back up all data before replacing \fBLast\fR
\fBErred\fR devices.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Root privileges are required for all of the following options except \fB-h\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Transitions the state of \fIcomponent\fR to the available state and resyncs the
failed component. If the failed component has been hot spare replaced, the hot
spare is placed in the available state and made available for other hot spare
replacements. This command is useful when a component fails due to human error
(for example, accidentally turning off a disk), or because the component was
physically replaced. In this case, the replacement component must be
partitioned to match the disk being replaced before running the
\fBmetareplace\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Forces the replacement of an errored component of a metadevice in which
multiple components are in error. The component determined by the
\fBmetastat\fR display to be in the ``Maintenance'' state must be replaced
first. This option may cause data to be fabricated since multiple components
are in error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Display help message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fB\fIsetname\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specifies the name of the diskset on which \fBmetareplace\fR will work. Using
the \fB-s\fR option will cause the command to perform its administrative
function within the specified diskset. Without this option, the command will
perform its function on local metadevices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImirror\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The metadevice name of the mirror.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcomponent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The logical name for the physical slice (partition) on a disk drive, such as
\fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcomponent-old\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The physical slice that is being replaced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcomponent-new\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The physical slice that is replacing \fIcomponent-old\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIRAID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The metadevice name of the RAID5 device.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRecovering from Error Condition in RAID5 Metadevice
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to recover when a single component in a RAID5 metadevice
is errored.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metareplace d10 c3t0d0s2 c5t0d0s2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, a RAID5 metadevice \fBd10\fR has an errored component,
\fBc3t0d0s2\fR, replaced by a new component, \fBc5t0d0s2\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUse of \fB-e\fR After Physical Disk Replacement
.sp
.LP
This example shows the use of the \fB-e\fR option after a physical disk in a
submirror (a submirror of mirror \fBmymirror1\fR, in this case) has been
replaced.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metareplace -e mymirror1 c1t4d0s2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note: The replacement disk must be partitioned to match the disk it is
replacing before running the \fBmetareplace\fR command.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdmonitord\fR(1M), \fBmetaclear\fR(1M), \fBmetadb\fR(1M),
\fBmetadetach\fR(1M), \fBmetahs\fR(1M), \fBmetainit\fR(1M),
\fBmetaoffline\fR(1M), \fBmetaonline\fR(1M), \fBmetaparam\fR(1M),
\fBmetarecover\fR(1M), \fBmetarename\fR(1M), \fBmetaroot\fR(1M),
\fBmetaset\fR(1M), \fBmetassist\fR(1M), \fBmetastat\fR(1M), \fBmetasync\fR(1M),
\fBmetattach\fR(1M), \fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBmd.cf\fR(4), \fBmddb.cf\fR(4),
\fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
