'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH METAIMPORT 1M "Oct 28, 2005"
.SH NAME
metaimport \- imports disk sets into existing Solaris Volume Manager
configurations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmetaimport\fR \fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fIdisks\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmetaimport\fR \fB-r\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fIdisks\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmetaimport\fR \fB-V\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmetaimport\fR \fB-?\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetaimport\fR command allows the importing of disk sets, including
replicated disk sets, into an existing Solaris Volume Manager configuration.
Replicated disk sets are disk sets created using remote replication software.
.sp
.LP
The default Solaris Volume Manager configuration specifies a maximum number of
disk sets that can be configured. The \fBmetaimport\fR command fails if
importing the disk set would result in exceeding the number of disk sets
configured on the system. To increase the number of disk sets allowed on a
system, see the \fI\fR.
.sp
.LP
Use \fBmetaset\fR(1M) or \fBmetastat\fR(1M) to view the configuration of the
imported set.
.sp
.LP
You must run \fBmetaimport\fR as root.
.sp
.LP
\fBmetaimport\fR requires a functional Solaris Volume Manager configuration
before it runs.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Force the import, even if a quorum of replicas from the imported disk set is
not available. This option could result in corrupt configurations and should
only be used when \fBmetaimport\fR fails with the "Insufficient quorum
detected; exiting" error. If only a partial disk set is available, this option
might be necessary to successfully import. Some or all data could be corrupted
or unavailable when importing a partial set or a set lacking a replica quorum.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Does not actually perform the operation, but shows the output or errors that
would have resulted from the operation, had it been run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Report on the non-configured disk sets found on the system. If no disk device
or LUN is specified, \fBmetaimport\fR reports on all non-configured disk sets
attached to the system. When the name of one disk is specified,
\fBmetaimport\fR reports on the disk set (or virtual LUN) containing the
specified disk. If two or more disks are specified, metaimport reports on the
set (or sets, if they belong to different disk sets) containing the specified
disks. If two or more disks are specified, \fBmetaimport\fR reports on the set
(or sets, if they belong to different disk sets) containing the specified
disks.
.sp
This option can be used in conjunction with the \fB-v\fR option to give verbose
output on each disk set reported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specify the disk set name to use when importing. The imported disk set will be
called \fIsetname\fR, without regard to the name it may have had on a different
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Verbose. Provides detailed information about the \fBmetadb\fR replica location
and status. It also provides detailed information about the disk set
configuration and status similar to the "\fBmetastat -c\fR" output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Version information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Display a help message.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRImporting a Disk Set
.sp
.LP
The following example creates a disk set called \fBblue\fR and identifies
\fBc1t5d0\fR as a disk containing a state database replica from the disk set
being imported.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metaimport -s blue c1t5d0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRReporting Disk Sets to Import
.sp
.LP
The following example scans all disks and LUNs attached to the system and
configured as part of the system. It scans for disks that could be part of a
disk set to be imported. Components that are already part of the Solaris Volume
Manager configuration are ignored.

.sp
.LP
This use of \fBmetaimport\fR provides suggested forms of the \fBmetaimport\fR
command to use to actually import the disk sets that have been found. You can
specify a component on the command line to reduce the scope of the scan and
generate results more quickly.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
 # metaimport -r
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdmonitord\fR(1M), \fBmetaclear\fR(1M), \fBmetadb\fR(1M),
\fBmetadetach\fR(1M), \fBmetahs\fR(1M), \fBmetainit\fR(1M),
\fBmetaoffline\fR(1M), \fBmetaonline\fR(1M), \fBmetaparam\fR(1M),
\fBmetarecover\fR(1M), \fBmetareplace\fR(1M), \fBmetaroot\fR(1M),
\fBmetaset\fR(1M), \fBmetastat\fR(1M), \fBmetasync\fR(1M), \fBmetattach\fR(1M),
\fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBmd.cf\fR(4), \fBmddb.cf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
