'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH METASYNC 1M "Mar 27, 2006"
.SH NAME
metasync \- handle metadevice resync during reboot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metasync\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metasync\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] [\fIbuffer_size\fR] \fImetadevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metasync\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-r\fR [\fIbuffer_size\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metasync\fR \fB-p\fR \fImetadevice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metasync\fR \fB-c\fR \fImetadevice\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetasync\fR command starts a resync operation on the specified
\fImetadevice\fR. All components that need to be resynced are resynced. If the
system crashes during a RAID5 initialization, or during a RAID5 resync, either
an initialization or resync restarts when the system reboots.
.sp
.LP
Applications are free to access a metadevice at the same time that it is being
resynced by \fBmetasync\fR. Also, \fBmetasync\fR performs the copy operations
from inside the kernel, which makes the utility more efficient.
.sp
.LP
Use the \fB-r\fR option in boot scripts to resync all possible submirrors.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fImetadevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Cancels the resync that is in progress on the specified metadevice. The resync
will be stopped at its current point and can be resumed by running the
"\fBmetasync metadevice\fR" command. This option only applies to RAID1 volumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Displays usage message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fImetadevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Regenerates parity information for RAID5 metadevices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fB\fIsetname\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specifies the name of the diskset on which \fBmetasync\fR will work. Using the
\fB-s\fR option will cause the command to perform its administrative function
within the specified diskset. Without this option, the command will perform its
function on local metadevices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specifies that the \fBmetasync\fR command handle special resync requirements
during a system reboot. \fBmetasync\fR \fB-r\fR should only be invoked from the
\fBsvc:/system/mdmonitor\fR service. The \fBmetasync\fR command only resyncs
those metadevices that need to be resynced. \fBmetasync\fR schedules all the
mirror resyncs according to their pass numbers.
.sp
To override the default buffer_size value used by the
\fBsvc:/system/mdmonitor\fR service, you can edit \fB/etc/system\fR to specify:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
set md_mirror:md_resync_bufsz = 2048
.fi
.in -2
.sp

so that resyncs occur as quickly as possible.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIbuffer_size\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies the size (number of 512-byte disk blocks) of the internal copy buffer
for the mirror resync. The size defaults to 1024 512-byte disk blocks. It can
be no more than 2048 blocks. For best performance (quickest completion of the
resync), 2048 blocks is the recommended size.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdmonitord\fR(1M), \fBmetaclear\fR(1M), \fBmetadb\fR(1M),
\fBmetadetach\fR(1M), \fBmetahs\fR(1M), \fBmetainit\fR(1M),
\fBmetaoffline\fR(1M), \fBmetaonline\fR(1M), \fBmetaparam\fR(1M),
\fBmetarecover\fR(1M), \fBmetarename\fR(1M), \fBmetareplace\fR(1M),
\fBmetaroot\fR(1M), \fBmetaset\fR(1M), \fBmetassist\fR(1M), \fBmetastat\fR(1M),
\fBmetattach\fR(1M), \fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBmd.cf\fR(4), \fBmddb.cf\fR(4),
\fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetasync\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/mdmonitor
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
