'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH METAHS 1M "Mar 26, 2006"
.SH NAME
metahs \- manage hot spares and hot spare pools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-a\fR all \fIcomponent\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-a\fR \fIhot_spare_pool\fR [\fIcomponent\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-d\fR \fIhot_spare_pool\fR [\fIcomponent\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-d\fR all \fIcomponent\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-e\fR \fIcomponent\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-r\fR \fIhot_spare_pool\fR \fIcomponent-old\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-r\fR all \fIcomponent-old\fR \fIcomponent-new\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metahs\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fB-i\fR [\fIhot_spare_pool\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetahs\fR command manages existing hot spares and hot spare pools. It is
used to add, delete, enable, and replace components (slices) in hot spare
pools. Like the \fBmetainit\fR command, the \fBmetahs\fR command can also
create an initial hot spare pool. The \fBmetahs\fR command does not replace a
component of a metadevice. This function is performed by the \fBmetareplace\fR
command.
.sp
.LP
Hot spares are always in one of three states: available, in-use, or broken.
Available hot spares are running and ready to accept data, but are not
currently being written to or read from. In-use hot spares are currently being
written to and read from. Broken hot spares are out of service and should be
repaired. The status of hot spares is displayed when \fBmetahs\fR is invoked
with the \fB-i\fR option.
.sp
.LP
Solaris Volume Manager supports storage devices and logical volumes, including
hot spares, greater than 1 terabyte (TB) when Solaris 10 is running a 64-bit
kernel.
.sp
.LP
If a system with large volumes or hot spares is rebooted under a 32-bit Solaris
10 kernel, the large volumes are visible through \fBmetastat\fR output, but
they cannot be accessed, modified or deleted, and no new large volumes can be
created. Any volumes or file systems on a large volume in this situation are
also unavailable. If a system with large volumes is rebooted under a version of
Solaris prior to Solaris 10, Solaris Volume Manager will not start. All large
volumes must be removed before Solaris Volume Manager runs under another
version of the Solaris Operating Environment.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Root privileges are required for any of the following options except \fB-i\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fBall\fR \fIcomponent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add \fIcomponent\fR to all hot spare pools. \fBall\fR is not case sensitive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIhot_spare_pool\fR \fB[\fR\fIcomponent\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add the \fIcomponent\fR to the specified \fIhot_spare_pool\fR.
\fIhot_spare_pool\fR is created if it does not already exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fBall\fR \fIcomponent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete \fIcomponent\fR from all the hot spare pools. The \fIcomponent\fR cannot
be deleted if it is in the in-use state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIhot_spare_pool\fR \fB[\fR\fIcomponent\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete \fIhot_spare_pool\fR, if the \fIhot_spare_pool\fR is both empty and not
referenced by a metadevice. If \fIcomponent\fR is specified, it is deleted from
the \fIhot_spare_pool\fR. Hot spares in the in-use state cannot be deleted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIcomponent\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable \fIcomponent\fR to be available for use as a hot spare. The
\fIcomponent\fR can be enabled if it is in the broken state and has been
repaired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fB[\fR\fIhot_spare_pool\fR\fB\|.\|.\|.]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the status of the specified \fIhot_spare_pool\fR or for all hot spare
pools if one is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fBall\fR \fIcomponent-old component-new\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Replace \fIcomponent-old\fR with \fIcomponent-new\fR in all hot spare pools
which have the component associated. Components cannot be replaced from any hot
spare pool if the old hot spare is in the in-use state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIhot_spare_pool component-old component-new\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Replace \fIcomponent-old\fR with \fIcomponent-new\fR in the specified
\fIhot_spare_pool\fR. Components cannot be replaced from a hot spare pool if
the old hot spare is in the in-use state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fB\fIsetname\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the name of the diskset on which \fBmetahs\fR works. Using the \fB-s\fR
option causes the command to perform its administrative function within the
specified diskset. Without this option, the command performs its function on
local hot spare pools.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcomponent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The logical name for the physical slice (partition) on a disk drive, such as
\fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhot_spare_pool\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Names for hot spare pools can be any legal file name that is composed of
alphanumeric characters, a dash ("-"), an underscore ("_"), or a period (".").
Names must begin with a letter. The words "all" and "none" are reserved and
cannot be used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRAdding a Hot Spare to a Hot Spare Pool
.sp
.LP
The following example adds a hot spare \fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s7\fR to a hot spare
pool \fBmirror1_pool\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metahs -a mirror1_pool c0t0d0s7
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the hot spare is added to the pool, the existing order of the hot spares
already in the pool is preserved. The new hot spare is added at the end of the
list of hot spares in the hot spare pool specified.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRAdding a Hot Spare to All Currently Defined Pools
.sp
.LP
This example adds a hot spare to the hot spare pools that are currently
defined:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metahs -a all c0t0d0s7
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The keyword \fBall\fR in this example specifies adding the hot spare,
\fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s7\fR, to all the hot spare pools.

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDeleting a Hot Spare
.sp
.LP
This example deletes a hot spare, \fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s7\fR, from a hot spare
pool, \fBhsp003\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metahs -d hsp003 c0t0d0s7
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When you delete a hot spare, the position of the remaining hot spares in the
pool changes to reflect the new order. For instance, if in this example
\fB/dev/dsk/c0t0d0s7\fR were the second of three hot spares, after deletion the
third hot spare would move to the second position.

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRReplacing a Hot Spare
.sp
.LP
This example replaces a hot spare that was previously defined:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metahs -r hsp001 c0t1d0s0 c0t3d0s0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, the hot spare \fB/dev/dsk/c0t1d0s0\fR is replaced by
\fB/dev/dsk/c0t3d0s0\fR. The order of the hot spares does not change.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdmonitord\fR(1M), \fBmetaclear\fR(1M), \fBmetadb\fR(1M),
\fBmetadetach\fR(1M), \fBmetainit\fR(1M), \fBmetaoffline\fR(1M),
\fBmetaonline\fR(1M), \fBmetaparam\fR(1M), \fBmetarecover\fR(1M),
\fBmetarename\fR(1M), \fBmetareplace\fR(1M), \fBmetaroot\fR(1M),
\fBmetaset\fR(1M), \fBmetassist\fR(1M), \fBmetastat\fR(1M), \fBmetasync\fR(1M),
\fBmetattach\fR(1M), \fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBmd.cf\fR(4), \fBmddb.cf\fR(4),
\fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Do not create large (>1 TB) volumes if you expect to run the Solaris Operating
Environment with a 32-bit kernel or if you expect to use a version of the
Solaris Operating Environment prior to Solaris 10.
