'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH METAOFFLINE 1M "Mar 26, 2006"
.SH NAME
metaoffline, metaonline \- place submirrors offline and online
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metaoffline\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metaoffline\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] [\fB-f\fR] \fImirror\fR \fIsubmirror\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metaonline\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/metaonline\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsetname\fR] \fImirror\fR \fIsubmirror\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetaoffline\fR command prevents Solaris Volume Manager from reading and
writing to the submirror that has been taken offline. While the submirror is
offline, all writes to the mirror will be kept track of (by region) and will be
written when the submirror is brought back online. The \fBmetaoffline\fR
command can also be used to perform online backups: one submirror is taken
offline and backed up while the mirror remains accessible. (However, if this is
a two-way mirror, data redundancy is lost while one submirror is offline.) The
\fBmetaoffline\fR command differs from the \fBmetadetach\fR command because it
does not sever the logical association between the submirror and the mirror. To
completely remove a submirror from a mirror, use the \fBmetadetach\fR command.
.sp
.LP
A submirror that has been taken offline will only remain offline until the
\fBmetaonline\fR command is invoked or the system is rebooted.
.sp
.LP
When the \fBmetaonline\fR command is used, reading from and writing to the
submirror resumes. A resync is automatically invoked to resync the regions
written while the submirror was offline. Writes are directed to the submirror
during resync. Reads, however, will come from a different submirror. Once the
resync operation completes, reads and writes are performed on that submirror.
The \fBmetaonline\fR command is only effective on a submirror of a mirror that
has been taken offline.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetaoffline\fR and \fBmetaonline\fR commands can not be used on RAID 1
volumes in application-based recovery (ABR) mode.
.sp
.LP
A submirror that has been taken offline with the \fBmetaoffline\fR command can
only be mounted as read-only.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Root privileges are required for all of the following options except \fB-h\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Forces offlining of submirrors that have slices requiring maintenance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Displays usage message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fB\fIsetname\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies the name of the diskset on which \fBmetaoffline\fR and
\fBmetaonline\fR will work. Using the \fB-s\fR option will cause the command to
perform its administrative function within the specified diskset. Without this
option, the command will perform its function on local metadevices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImirror\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies the metadevice name of the mirror from which the submirror will be
either taken offline or put online.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsubmirror\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies the metadevice name of the submirror to be either taken offline or
put online.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRTaking a Submirror Offline
.sp
.LP
This example takes one submirror, \fBmymirror_sub1\fR, offline from mirror
\fBmymirror\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# metaoffline mymirror mymirror_sub1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmdmonitord\fR(1M), \fBmetaclear\fR(1M), \fBmetadb\fR(1M),
\fBmetadetach\fR(1M), \fBmetahs\fR(1M), \fBmetainit\fR(1M),
\fBmetaparam\fR(1M), \fBmetarecover\fR(1M), \fBmetarename\fR(1M),
\fBmetareplace\fR(1M), \fBmetaroot\fR(1M), \fBmetaset\fR(1M),
\fBmetassist\fR(1M), \fBmetastat\fR(1M), \fBmetasync\fR(1M),
\fBmetattach\fR(1M), \fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBmd.cf\fR(4), \fBmddb.cf\fR(4),
\fBmd.tab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBmetaonline\fR and \fBmetaoffline\fR commands are not applicable to
mirrors in application-based recovery (ABR) mode.
