'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MKPWDICT 1M "Jun 1, 2004"
.SH NAME
mkpwdict \- maintain password-strength checking database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/mkpwdict\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIdict1\fR,... ,\fIdictN\fR]
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdestination-path\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkpwdict\fR command adds words to the dictionary-lookup database used by
\fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5) and \fBpasswd\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
Files containing words to be added to the database can be specified on the
command-line using the \fB-s\fR flag. These source files should have a single
word per line, much like \fB/usr/share/lib/dict/words\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fB-s\fR is omitted, \fBmkpwdict\fR will use the value of \fBDICTIONLIST\fR
specified in \fB/etc/default/passwd\fR (see \fBpasswd\fR(1)).
.sp
.LP
The database is created in the directory specified by the \fB-d\fR option. If
this option is omitted, \fBmkpwdict\fR uses the value of \fBDICTIONDBDIR\fR
specified in \fB/etc/default/passwd\fR (see \fBpasswd\fR(1)). The default
location is \fB/var/passwd\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Specifies a comma-separated list of files containing words to be added to the
dictionary-lookup database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Specifies the target location of the dictionary-database.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
See \fBpasswd\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
default destination directory
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5)
