'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1993, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MODLOAD 1M "Dec 1, 1993"
.SH NAME
modload \- load a kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmodload\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIexec_file\fR] \fIfilename\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodload\fR command loads the loadable module  \fIfilename\fR into the
running system.
.sp
.LP
\fIfilename\fR is an object file produced by \fBld \fR\fB-r\fR. If
\fIfilename\fR is an absolute pathname then the file specified by that absolute
path is loaded. If  \fIfilename\fR does not begin with a slash (\fB/\fR), then
the path to load  \fIfilename\fR is relative to the current directory unless
the  \fB-p\fR option is specified.
.sp
.LP
The kernel's \fBmodpath\fR variable can be set using the \fB/etc/system\fR
file. The default value of the kernel's \fBmodpath\fR variable is set to the
path where the operating system was loaded.  Typically this is \fB/kernel
/usr/kernel\fR.
.sp
.LP
For example, the following command looks for \fB\&./drv/foo\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBmodload drv/foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command looks for \fB/kernel/drv/foo\fR and then
\fB/usr/kernel/drv/foo\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBmodload -p drv/foo\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fI exec_file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specify the name of a shell script or  executable image file that is executed
after the module is successfully loaded.  The first argument passed is the
module ID (in decimal). The other argument is module specific. The module
specific information is: the block and character major numbers for drivers, the
system call number for system calls, or, for  other module types, the index
into the appropriate kernel table. See  \fBmodinfo\fR(1M)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Use the kernel's internal modpath variable as the search path for the module.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBld\fR(1), \fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBmodinfo\fR(1M),
\fBmodunload\fR(1M), \fBsystem\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmodldrv\fR(9S),
\fBmodlinkage\fR(9S), \fBmodlstrmod\fR(9S), \fBmodule_info\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use \fBadd_drv\fR(1M) to add device drivers, not \fBmodload\fR. See \fI\fR for
procedures on adding device drivers.
