'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MOUNT_NFS 1M "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
mount_nfs \- mount remote NFS resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmount\fR [\fB-F\fR nfs] [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] [\fB-O\fR] \fIresource\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmount\fR [\fB-F\fR nfs] [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR] [\fB-O\fR] \fImount_point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmount\fR [\fB-F\fR nfs] [\fIgeneric_options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR]
     [\fB-O\fR] \fIresource\fR \fImount_point\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBmount\fR utility attaches a named \fIresource\fR to the file system
hierarchy at the pathname location \fImount_point\fR, which must already exist.
If \fImount_point\fR has any contents prior to the \fBmount\fR operation, the
contents remain hidden until the \fIresource\fR is once again unmounted.
.sp
.LP
\fBmount_nfs\fR starts the \fBlockd\fR(1M) and \fBstatd\fR(1M) daemons if they
are not already running.
.sp
.LP
If the resource is listed in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, the command line can
specify either \fIresource\fR or \fImount_point\fR, and \fBmount\fR consults
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR for more information. If the \fB-F\fR option is omitted,
\fBmount\fR takes the file system type from \fB/etc/vfstab\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the resource is not listed in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, then the command
line must specify both the \fIresource\fR and the \fImount_point\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fIhost\fR can be an IPv4 or IPv6 address string. As IPv6 addresses already
contain colons, enclose \fIhost\fR in a pair of square brackets when specifying
an IPv6 address string. Otherwise the first occurrence of a colon can be
interpreted as the separator between the host name and path, for example,
\fB[1080::8:800:200C:417A]:tmp/file\fR. See \fBinet\fR(7P) and \fBinet6\fR(7P).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhost\fR:\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Where \fIhost\fR is the name of the \fBNFS\fR server host, and \fIpathname\fR
is the path name of the directory on the server being mounted. The path name is
interpreted according to the server's path name parsing rules and is not
necessarily slash-separated, though on most servers, this is the case.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInfs\fR://\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]/\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is an \fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fR and follows the standard convention for
\fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fRs as described in \fINFS URL Scheme\fR, RFC 2224. See the
discussion of \fBURL\fR's and the public option under \fBNFS FILE SYSTEMS\fR
for a more detailed discussion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhost\fR:\fIpathname\fR
\fInfs\fR://\fIhost\fR[:\fIport\fR]/\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIhost\fR:\fIpathname\fR is a comma-separated list of
\fIhost\fR:\fIpathname\fR.
.sp
See the discussion of replicated file systems and failover under \fBNFS FILE
SYSTEMS\fR for a more detailed discussion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhostlist\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIhostlist\fR is a comma-separated list of hosts.
.sp
See the discussion of replicated file systems and failover under \fBNFS FILE
SYSTEMS\fR for a more detailed discussion.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmount\fR command maintains a table of mounted file systems in
\fB/etc/mnttab\fR, described in \fBmnttab\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
\fBmount_nfs\fR supports both NFSv3 and NFSv4 mounts. The default NFS version
is NFSv4.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
See \fBmount\fR(1M) for the list of supported \fIgeneric_options\fR. See
\fBshare_nfs\fR(1M) for a description of server options.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIspecific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set file system specific options according to a comma-separated list with no
intervening spaces.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBacdirmax=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hold cached attributes for no more than \fIn\fR seconds after directory update.
The default value is \fB60\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBacdirmin=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hold cached attributes for at least \fIn\fR seconds after directory update. The
default value is \fB30\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBacregmax=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hold cached attributes for no more than \fIn\fR seconds after file
modification. The default value is \fB60\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBacregmin=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hold cached attributes for at least \fIn\fR seconds after file modification.
The default value is \fB3\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBactimeo=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set \fImin\fR and \fImax\fR times for regular files and directories to \fIn\fR
seconds. See "File Attributes," below, for a description of the effect of
setting this option to \fB0\fR.
.sp
See "Specifying Values for Attribute Cache Duration Options," below, for a
description of how \fBacdirmax\fR, \fBacdirmin\fR, \fBacregmax\fR,
\fBacregmin\fR, and \fBactimeo\fR are parsed on a \fBmount\fR command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbg\fR | \fBfg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the first attempt fails, retry in the background, or, in the foreground. The
default is \fBfg\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBforcedirectio\fR | \fBnoforcedirectio\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If \fBforcedirectio\fR is specified, then for the duration of the mount, forced
direct \fBI/O\fR is used. If the filesystem is mounted using
\fBforcedirectio\fR, data is transferred directly between client and server,
with no buffering on the client. If the filesystem is mounted using
\fBnoforcedirectio\fR, data is buffered on the client. \fBforcedirectio\fR is a
performance option that is of benefit only in large sequential data transfers.
The default behavior is \fBnoforcedirectio\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgrpid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
By default, the \fBGID\fR associated with a newly created file obeys the System
V semantics; that is, the \fBGID\fR is set to the effective \fBGID\fR of the
calling process. This behavior can be overridden on a per-directory basis by
setting the set-GID bit of the parent directory; in this case, the \fBGID\fR of
a newly created file is set to the \fBGID\fR of the parent directory (see
\fBopen\fR(2) and \fBmkdir\fR(2)). Files created on file systems that are
mounted with the \fBgrpid\fR option obeys \fBBSD\fR semantics independent of
whether the set-GID bit of the parent directory is set; that is, the \fBGID\fR
is unconditionally inherited from that of the parent directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhard\fR | \fBsoft\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Continue to retry requests until the server responds (\fBhard\fR) or give up
and return an error (\fBsoft\fR). The default value is \fBhard\fR. Note that
NFSv4 clients do not support soft mounts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBintr\fR | \fBnointr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allow (do not allow) keyboard interrupts to kill a process that is hung while
waiting for a response on a hard-mounted file system. The default is
\fBintr\fR, which makes it possible for clients to interrupt applications that
can be waiting for a remote mount.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnoac\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress data and attribute caching. The data caching that is suppressed is the
write-behind. The local page cache is still maintained, but data copied into it
is immediately written to the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnocto\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not perform the normal close-to-open consistency. When a file is closed, all
modified data associated with the file is flushed to the server and not held on
the client. When a file is opened the client sends a request to the server to
validate the client's local caches. This behavior ensures a file's consistency
across multiple NFS clients. When \fB-nocto\fR is in effect, the client does
not perform the flush on close and the request for validation, allowing the
possibility of differences among copies of the same file as stored on multiple
clients.
.sp
This option can be used where it can be guaranteed that accesses to a specified
file system are made from only one client and only that client. Under such a
condition, the effect of \fB-nocto\fR can be a slight performance gain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBport=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server \fBIP\fR port number. The default is \fBNFS_PORT\fR. If the
\fBport\fR option is specified, and if the resource includes one or more
\fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fRs, and if any of the \fBURL\fRs include a \fBport\fR number,
then the \fBport\fR number in the option and in the \fBURL\fR must be the same.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBposix\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request \fBPOSIX.1\fR semantics for the file system. Requires a mount Version 2
\fBmountd\fR(1M) on the server. See \fBstandards\fR(5) for information
regarding POSIX.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBproto=\fR\fInetid\fR | \fBrdma\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
By default, the transport protocol that the NFS mount uses is the first
available RDMA transport supported both by the client and the server. If no
RDMA transport is found, then it attempts to use a TCP transport or, failing
that, a UDP transport, as ordered in the \fB/etc/netconfig\fR file. If it does
not find a connection oriented transport, it uses the first available
connectionless transport.
.sp
Use this option to override the default behavior.
.sp
\fBproto\fR is set to the value of \fInetid\fR or \fBrdma\fR. \fInetid\fR is
the value of the \fBnetwork_id\fR field entry in the \fB/etc/netconfig\fR file.
.sp
The UDP protocol is not supported for NFS Version 4. If you specify a UDP
protocol with the \fBproto\fR option, NFS version 4 is not used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpublic\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBpublic\fR option forces the use of the public file handle when
connecting to the \fBNFS\fR server. The resource specified might not have an
\fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fR. See the discussion of \fBURL\fRs and the public option
under \fBNFS FILE SYSTEMS\fR for a more detailed discussion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBquota\fR | \fBnoquota\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable or prevent \fBquota\fR(1M) to check whether the user is over quota on
this file system; if the file system has quotas enabled on the server, quotas
are still checked for operations on this file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBremount\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remounts a read-only file system as read-write (using the \fBrw\fR option).
This option cannot be used with other \fB-o\fR options, and this option works
only on currently mounted read-only file systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBretrans=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the number of \fBNFS\fR retransmissions to \fIn\fR. The default value is
\fB5\fR. For connection-oriented transports, this option has no effect because
it is assumed that the transport performs retransmissions on behalf of NFS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBretry=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The number of times to retry the \fBmount\fR operation. The default for the
\fBmount\fR command is \fB10000\fR.
.sp
The default for the automounter is \fB0\fR, in other words, do not retry. You
might find it useful to increase this value on heavily loaded servers, where
automounter traffic is dropped, causing unnecessary server not responding
errors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrsize=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the read buffer size to a maximum of \fIn\fR bytes. The default value is
\fB1048576\fR when using connection-oriented transports with Version 3 or
Version 4 of the \fBNFS\fR protocol, and \fB32768\fR when using connection-less
transports. The default can be negotiated down if the server prefers a smaller
transfer size. "\fBRead\fR" operations may not necessarily use the maximum
buffer size. When using Version 2, the default value is \fB32768\fR for all
transports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsec=\fR\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the security \fImode\fR for \fBNFS\fR transactions. If \fBsec=\fR is not
specified, then the default action is to use \fBAUTH_SYS\fR over \fBNFS\fR
Version 2 mounts, use a user-configured default \fBauth\fR over NFS version 3
mounts, or to  negotiate a mode over Version 4 mounts.
.sp
The preferred mode for NFS Version 3 mounts is the default mode specified in
\fB/etc/nfssec.conf\fR (see \fBnfssec.conf\fR(4)) on the client. If there is no
default configured in this file or if the server does not export using the
client's default mode, then the client picks the first mode that it supports in
the array of modes returned by the server. These alternatives are limited to
the security flavors listed in \fB/etc/nfssec.conf\fR.
.sp
NFS Version 4 mounts negotiate a security mode when the server returns an array
of security modes. The client attempts the mount with each security mode, in
order, until one is successful.
.sp
Only one mode can be specified with the \fBsec=\fR option. See \fBnfssec\fR(5)
for the available \fImode\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsecure\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option has been deprecated in favor of the \fBsec=\fR\fIdh\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtimeo=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the \fBNFS\fR timeout to \fIn\fR tenths of a second. The default value is
\fB11\fR tenths of a second for connectionless transports, and \fB600\fR tenths
of a second for connection-oriented transports. This value is ignored for
connectionless transports. Such transports might implement their own timeouts,
which are outside the control of NFS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvers=\fR\fINFS version number\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
By default, the version of \fBNFS\fR protocol used between the client and the
server is the highest one available on both systems. The default maximum for
the client is Version 4. This can be changed by setting the
\fBNFS_CLIENT_VERSMAX\fR parameter in \fB/etc/default/nfs\fR to a valid version
(2, 3, or 4). If the \fBNFS\fR server does not support the client's default
maximum, the next lowest version attempted until a matching version is found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwsize=\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the write buffer size to a maximum of \fIn\fR bytes. The default value is
\fB1048576\fR when using connection-oriented transports with Version 3 or
Version 4 of the \fBNFS\fR protocol, and \fB32768\fR when using connection-less
transports. The default can be negotiated down if the server prefers a smaller
transfer size. "\fBWrite\fR" operations may not necessarily use the maximum
buffer size. When using Version 2, the default value is \fB32768\fR for all
transports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxattr\fR | \fBnoxattr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allow or disallow the creation and manipulation of extended attributes. The
default is \fBxattr\fR. See \fBfsattr\fR(5) for a description of extended
attributes.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overlay mount. Allow the file system to be mounted over an existing mount
point, making the underlying file system inaccessible. If a mount is attempted
on a pre-existing mount point without setting this flag, the mount fails,
producing the error "device busy."
.RE

.SH NFS FILE SYSTEMS
.ne 2
.na
\fBBackground versus Foreground\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File systems mounted with the \fBbg\fR option indicate that \fBmount\fR is to
retry in the background if the server's mount daemon (\fBmountd\fR(1M)) does
not respond. \fBmount\fR retries the request up to the count specified in the
\fBretry=\fR\fIn\fR option. (Note that the default value for \fBretry\fR
differs between \fBmount\fR and \fBautomount\fR. See the description of
\fBretry\fR, above.) Once the file system is mounted, each \fBNFS\fR request
made in the kernel waits \fBtimeo=\fR\fIn\fR tenths of a second for a response.
If no response arrives, the time-out is multiplied by \fB2\fR and the request
is retransmitted. When the number of retransmissions has reached the number
specified in the \fBretrans=\fR\fIn\fR option, a file system mounted with the
\fBsoft\fR option returns an error on the request; one mounted with the
\fBhard\fR option prints a warning message and continues to retry the request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBHard versus Soft\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File systems that are mounted read-write or that contain executable files
should always be mounted with the \fBhard\fR option. Applications using
\fBsoft\fR mounted file systems can incur unexpected \fBI/O\fR errors, file
corruption, and unexpected program core dumps. The soft option is not
recommended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBAuthenticated requests\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server can require authenticated \fBNFS\fR requests from the client.
\fBsec=\fR\fIdh\fR authentication might be required. See \fBnfssec\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBURLs and the public option\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the \fBpublic\fR option is specified, or if the \fIresource\fR includes an
\fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fR, \fBmount\fR attempts to connect to the server using the
public file handle lookup protocol. See \fIWebNFS Client Specification\fR, RFC
2054. If the server supports the public file handle, the attempt is successful;
\fBmount\fR does not need to contact the server's \fBrpcbind\fR(1M) and the
\fBmountd\fR(1M) daemons to get the port number of the \fBmount\fR server and
the initial file handle of \fIpathname\fR, respectively. If the \fBNFS\fR
client and server are separated by a firewall that allows all outbound
connections through specific ports, such as \fBNFS_PORT\fR, then this enables
\fBNFS\fR operations through the firewall. The public option and the \fBNFS\fR
\fBURL\fR can be specified independently or together. They interact as
specified in the following matrix:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
                   Resource Style

                    \fIhost\fR:\fIpathname\fR              NFS URL

public option      Force public file          Force public file
                    handle and fail            handle and fail
                    mount if not supported.    mount if not supported.

                    Use Native paths.          Use Canonical paths.

default            Use MOUNT protocol.        Try public file handle
                                               with Canonical paths.
                                               Fall back to MOUNT
                                               protocol if not
                                               supported.
.fi
.in -2

A Native path is a path name that is interpreted according to conventions used
on the native operating system of the \fBNFS\fR server. A Canonical path is a
path name that is interpreted according to the \fBURL\fR rules. See \fIUniform
Resource Locators (URL)\fR, RFC 1738. See  for uses of Native and Canonical
paths.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBReplicated file systems and failover\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fIresource\fR can list multiple read\(mionly file systems to be used to
provide data. These file systems should contain equivalent directory structures
and identical files. It is also recommended that they be created by a utility
such as \fBrdist\fR(1). The file systems can be specified either with a
comma\(miseparated list of \fIhost:/pathname\fR entries and/or \fBNFS\fR
\fBURL\fR entries, or with a comma \(miseparated list of hosts, if all file
system names are the same. If multiple file systems are named and the first
server in the list is down, failover uses the next alternate server to access
files. If the read\(mionly option is not chosen, replication is disabled. File
access, for NFS Versions 2 and 3, is blocked on the original if NFS locks are
active for that file.
.RE

.SS "File Attributes"
.LP
To improve \fBNFS\fR read performance, files and file attributes are cached.
File modification times get updated whenever a write occurs. However, file
access times can be temporarily out-of-date until the cache gets refreshed.
.sp
.LP
The attribute cache retains file attributes on the client. Attributes for a
file are assigned a time to be flushed. If the file is modified before the
flush time, then the flush time is extended by the time since the last
modification (under the assumption that files that changed recently are likely
to change soon). There is a minimum and maximum flush time extension for
regular files and for directories. Setting \fBactimeo=\fR\fIn\fR sets flush
time to \fIn\fR seconds for both regular files and directories.
.sp
.LP
Setting \fBactimeo=0\fR disables attribute caching on the client. This means
that every reference to attributes is satisfied directly from the server though
file data is still cached. While this guarantees that the client always has the
latest file attributes from the server, it has an adverse effect on performance
through additional latency, network load, and server load.
.sp
.LP
Setting the \fBnoac\fR option also disables attribute caching, but has the
further effect of disabling client write caching. While this guarantees that
data written by an application is written directly to a server, where it can be
viewed immediately by other clients, it has a significant adverse effect on
client write performance. Data written into memory-mapped file pages
(\fBmmap\fR(2)) are not written directly to this server.
.SS "Specifying Values for Attribute Cache Duration Options"
.LP
The attribute cache duration options are \fBacdirmax\fR, \fBacdirmin\fR,
\fBacregmax\fR, \fBacregmin\fR, and \fBactimeo\fR, as described under OPTIONS.
A value specified for \fBactimeo\fR sets the values of all attribute cache
duration options except for any of these options specified following
\fBactimeo\fR on a \fBmount\fR command line. For example, consider the
following command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount -o acdirmax=10,actimeo=1000 server:/path /localpath
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Because \fBactimeo\fR is the last duration option in the command line, its
value (\fB1000\fR) becomes the setting for all of the duration options,
including \fBacdirmax\fR. Now consider:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount -o actimeo=1000,acdirmax=10 server:/path /localpath
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Because the \fBacdirmax\fR option follows \fBactimeo\fR on the command line, it
is assigned the value specified (\fB10\fR). The remaining duration options are
set to the value of \fBactimeo\fR (\fB1000\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRMounting an \fBNFS\fR File System
.sp
.LP
To mount an \fBNFS\fR file system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRMounting An \fBNFS\fR File System Read-Only With No suid
Privileges
.sp
.LP
To mount an \fBNFS\fR file system read-only with no suid privileges:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount -r -o nosuid serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRMounting An \fBNFS\fR File System Over Version 2, with the UDP
Transport
.sp
.LP
To mount an \fBNFS\fR file system over Version 2, with the UDP transport:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount -o vers=2,proto=udp serv:/usr/src /usr/src
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRMounting an \fBNFS\fR File System Using An \fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fR
.sp
.LP
To mount an \fBNFS\fR file system using an \fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fR (a canonical
path):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount nfs://serv/usr/man /usr/man
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRMounting An \fBNFS\fR File System Forcing Use Of The Public
File Handle
.sp
.LP
To mount an \fBNFS\fR file system and force the use of the public file handle
and an \fBNFS\fR \fBURL\fR (a canonical path) that has a non 7-bit ASCII escape
sequence:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount -o public nfs://serv/usr/%A0abc /mnt/test
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRMounting an \fBNFS\fR File System Using a Native Path
.sp
.LP
To mount an \fBNFS\fR file system using a native path (where the server uses
colons (":") as the component separator) and the public file handle:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount -o public serv:C:doc:new /usr/doc
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRMounting a Replicated Set of \fBNFS\fR File Systems with the
Same Pathnames
.sp
.LP
To mount a replicated set of \fBNFS\fR file systems with the same pathnames:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount serv\(mia,serv\(mib,serv\(mic:/usr/man /usr/man
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRMounting a Replicated Set of \fBNFS\fR File Systems with
Different Pathnames
.sp
.LP
To mount a replicated set of \fBNFS\fR file systems with different pathnames:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# mount serv\(mix:/usr/man,serv\(miy:/var/man,nfs://serv-z/man /usr/man
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mnttab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
table of mounted file systems
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default distributed file system type
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/vfstab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
table of automatically mounted resources
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBrdist\fR(1), \fBlockd\fR(1M), \fBmountall\fR(1M), \fBmountd\fR(1M),
\fBnfsd\fR(1M), \fBquota\fR(1M), \fBstatd\fR(1M), \fBmkdir\fR(2),
\fBmmap\fR(2), \fBmount\fR(2), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBumount\fR(2), \fBmnttab\fR(4),
\fBnfs\fR(4), \fBnfssec.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBfsattr\fR(5),
\fBnfssec\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBinet\fR(7P), \fBinet6\fR(7P),
\fBlofs\fR(7FS)
.sp
.LP
Callaghan, Brent, \fIWebNFS Client Specification\fR, RFC 2054, October 1996.
.sp
.LP
Callaghan, Brent, \fINFS URL Scheme\fR, RFC 2224, October 1997.
.sp
.LP
Berners-Lee, Masinter & McCahill , \fIUniform Resource Locators (URL)\fR, RFC
1738, December 1994.
.SH NOTES
.LP
An \fBNFS\fR server should not attempt to mount its own file systems. See
\fBlofs\fR(7FS).
.sp
.LP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a symbolic link,
the file system is mounted on \fBthe directory to which the symbolic link
refers,\fR rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
.sp
.LP
SunOS 4.x used the \fBbiod\fR maintenance procedure to perform parallel
read-ahead and write-behind on \fBNFS\fR clients. SunOS 5.x made \fBbiod\fR
obsolete with multi-threaded processing, which transparently performs parallel
read-ahead and write-behind.
.sp
.LP
Since the root \fB(\fR/\fB)\fR file system is mounted read-only by the kernel
during the boot process, only the \fBremount\fR option (and options that can be
used in conjunction with \fBremount\fR) affect the root (\fB/\fR) entry in the
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file.
.sp
.LP
The NFS client service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/nfs/client:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
