'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1994-2008 The FreeBSD Project. All rights reserved.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
.\" the following disclaimer. 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED
.\" BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
.\" SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH MOUNT_SMBFS 1M "Mar 31, 2009"
.SH NAME
mount_smbfs, umount_smbfs \- mount and unmount a shared resource from a CIFS
file server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/mount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR] [\fB-O\fR] \fIresource\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/mount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR] [\fB-O\fR] \fImount-point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/mount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR]
     [\fB-O\fR] \fIresource\fR \fImount-point\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/umount\fR [\fB-F smbfs\fR] [\fIgeneric-options\fR] \fImount-point\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmount\fR utility attaches a named resource, \fIresource\fR, to the file
system hierarchy at the path name location, \fImount-point\fR, which must
already exist.
.sp
.LP
If \fImount-point\fR has any contents prior to the \fBmount\fR operation, those
contents remain hidden until the resource is unmounted. An authorized user with
the \fBSYS_MOUNT\fR privilege can perform a \fBmount\fR operation. Also, a user
can perform SMBFS mount operations on a directory the user owns.
.sp
.LP
If the resource is listed in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, you can specify either
\fIresource\fR or \fImount-point\fR as the \fBmount\fR command will consult the
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR file for more information. If the \fB-F\fR option is omitted,
\fBmount\fR takes the file system type from the entry in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR
file.
.sp
.LP
If the resource is not listed in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, the command line
must specify both \fIresource\fR and \fImount-point\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBumount\fR utility detaches a mounted file system from the file system
hierarchy. An authorized user with the \fBSYS_MOUNT\fR privilege can perform a
\fBumount\fR operation. Also, a user can perform SMBFS unmount operations on a
directory the user owns.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnetwork/smb/client\fR service must be enabled to successfully mount a
CIFS share. This service is enabled, by default.
.sp
.LP
To enable the service, enter the following \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvcadm enable network/smb/client\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Operands"
.sp
.LP
The \fBmount\fR command supports the following operands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresource\fR
//[\fIworkgroup\fR;][\fIuser\fR[:\fIpassword\fR]@]\fIserver\fR/\fIshare\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.sp
.LP
The name of the resource to be mounted. In addition to its name, you can
specify the following information about the resource:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIpassword\fR is the password associated with \fIuser\fR. If \fIpassword\fR is
not specified, the mount first attempts to use the password stored by the
\fBsmbutil login\fR command (if any). If that password fails to authenticate,
the \fBmount_smbfs\fR prompts you for a password.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIserver\fR is the DNS or NetBIOS name of the remote computer.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIshare\fR is the resource name on the remote server.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIuser\fR is the remote user name. If \fIuser\fR is omitted, the logged in
user ID is used.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIworkgroup\fR is the name of the workgroup or the Windows domain in which the
user name is defined.
.sp
If the resource includes a workgroup, you must escape the semicolon that
appears after the workgroup name to prevent it from being interpreted by the
command shell. For instance, surround the entire resource name with double
quotes: \fBmount -F smbfs "//SALES;george@RSERVER" /mnt\fR.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImount-point\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path to the location where the file system is to be mounted or unmounted.
The \fBmount\fR command maintains a table of mounted file systems in the
\fB/etc/mnttab\fR file. See the \fBmnttab\fR(4) man page.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
See the \fBmount\fR(1M) man page for the list of supported
\fIgeneric-options\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR or\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the file system-specific properties. You can specify more than one
name-value pair as a list of comma-separated pairs. No spaces are permitted in
the list. The properties are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdirperms=\fR\fIoctaltriplet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the permissions to be assigned to directories. The value must be
specified as an octal triplet, such as \fB755\fR. The default value for the
directory mode is taken from the \fBfileperms\fR setting, with execute
permission added where \fBfileperms\fR has read permission.
.sp
Note that these permissions have no relation to the rights granted by the CIFS
server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfileperms=\fR\fIoctaltriplet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the permissions to be assigned to files. The value must be specified
as an octal triplet, such as \fB644\fR. The default value is \fB700\fR.
.sp
Note that these permissions have no relation to the rights granted by the CIFS
server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgid=\fR\fIgroupid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assigns the specified group ID to files. The default value is the group ID of
the directory where the volume is mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBintr\fR|\fBnointr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable (or disable) cancellation of \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS) I/O operations when the
user interrupts the calling thread (for example, by hitting Ctrl-C while an
operation is underway). The default is \fBintr\fR (interruption enabled), so
cancellation is normally allowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnoprompt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppresses the prompting for a password when mounting a share. This property
enables you to permit anonymous access to a share. Anonymous access does not
require a password.
.sp
The \fBmount\fR operation fails if a password is required, the \fBnoprompt\fR
property is set, and no password is stored by the \fBsmbutil login\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBretry_count=\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of SMBFS retries to attempt before the connection is
marked as broken. By default, 4 attempts are made.
.sp
The \fBretry_count\fR property value set by the \fBmount\fR command overrides
the global value set in SMF or the value set in your \fB\&.nsmbrc\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtimeout=\fR\fIseconds\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the CIFS request timeout. By default, the timeout is 15 seconds.
.sp
The \fBtimeout\fR property value set by the \fBmount\fR command overrides the
global value set in SMF or the value set in your \fB\&.nsmbrc\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuid=\fR\fIuserid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assigns the specified user ID files. The default value is the owner ID of the
directory where the volume is mounted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxattr\fR|\fBnoxattr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable (or disable) Solaris Extended Attributes in this mount point. This
option defaults to \fBxattr\fR (enabled Extended Attributes), but note: if the
CIFS server does not support CIFS "named streams", \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS) forces this
option to \fBnoxattr\fR. When a mount has the \fBnoxattr\fR option, attempts to
use Solaris Extended attributes fail with EINVAL.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overlays mount. Allow the file system to be mounted over an existing mount
point, making the underlying file system inaccessible. If a mount is attempted
on a pre-existing mount point without setting this flag, the mount fails,
producing the error "device busy."
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRMounting an SMBFS Share
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to mount the \fB/tmp\fR share from the
\fBnano\fR server in the \fBSALES\fR workgroup on the local \fB/mnt\fR mount
point. You must supply the password for the \fBroot\fR user to successfully
perform the mount operation.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount -F smbfs "//SALES;root@nano.sfbay/tmp" /mnt\fR
Password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRVerifying That an SMBFS File System Is Mounted
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to mount the \fB/tmp\fR share from the
\fBnano\fR server on the local \fB/mnt\fR mount point. You must supply the
password for the \fBroot\fR user to successfully perform the mount operation.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount -F smbfs //root@nano.sfbay/tmp /mnt\fR
Password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
You can verify that the share is mounted in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
View the file system entry in the \fB/etc/mnttab\fR file.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBgrep root /etc/mnttab\fR
//root@nano.sfbay/tmp   /mnt    smbfs   dev=4900000     1177097833
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
View the output of the \fBmount\fR command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmount | grep root\fR
/mnt on //root@nano.sfbay/tmp read/write/setuid/devices/dev=4900000 on
Fri Apr 20 13:37:13 2007
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
View the output of the \fBdf /mnt\fR command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdf /mnt\fR
/mnt               (//root@nano.sfbay/tmp): 3635872 blocks       -1 files
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.sp
.LP
Obtain information about the mounted share by viewing the output of the \fBdf
-k /mnt\fR command.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdf -k /mnt\fR
Filesystem            kbytes    used   avail capacity  Mounted on
//root@nano.sfbay/tmp
                      1882384   64448 1817936     4%    /mnt
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUnmounting a CIFS Share
.sp
.LP
This example assumes that a CIFS share has been mounted on the \fB/mnt\fR mount
point. The following command line unmounts the share from the mount point.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBumount /mnt\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mnttab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Table of mounted file systems.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Default distributed file system type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/vfstab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Table of automatically mounted resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
User-settable mount point configuration file to store the description for each
connection.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See the \fBattributes\fR(5) man page for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsmbutil\fR(1), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBmountall\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M),
\fBacl\fR(2), \fBfcntl\fR(2), \fBlink\fR(2), \fBmknod\fR(2), \fBmount\fR(2),
\fBsymlink\fR(2), \fBumount\fR(2), \fBmnttab\fR(4), \fBnsmbrc\fR(4),
\fBvfstab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpcfs\fR(7FS), \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
This manual page contains material originally authored by Boris Popov,
\fBbpATbutya.kz\fR, \fBbpATFreeBSD.org\fR.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Solaris CIFS client always attempts to use \fBgethostbyname()\fR to resolve
host names. If the host name cannot be resolved, the CIFS client uses NetBIOS
name resolution (NBNS). By default, the Solaris CIFS client permits the use of
NBNS to enable Solaris CIFS clients in Windows environments to work without
additional configuration.
.sp
.LP
Since NBNS has been exploited in the past, you might want to disable it. To
disable NBNS, set the \fBnbns-enabled\fR service management facility property
to \fBfalse\fR. By default, \fBnbns-enabled\fR is set to \fBtrue\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the directory on which a file system is to be mounted is a symbolic link,
the file system is mounted on the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than being mounted on top of the symbolic link itself.
