'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MPATHADM 1M "May 4, 2009"
.SH NAME
mpathadm \- multipath discovery and administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmpathadm\fR \fIsubcommand\fR \fIdirect-object\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIoperand\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpathadm\fR command enables multipathing discovery and management. The
\fBmpathadm\fR command is implemented as a set of subcommands, many with their
own options, that are described in the section for that subcommand. Options not
associated with a particular subcommand are described under OPTIONS. The
\fBmpathadm\fR subcommands operate on a \fIdirect-object\fR. These are
described in this section for each subcommand. The \fIdirect-objects\fR,
\fIinitiator-port\fR, \fItarget-port\fR, and\fIlogical-unit\fR in the
subcommands are consistent with SCSI standard definitions.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpathadm\fR command supports the following subcommands, which are
described in detail in subsections that follow.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Display a list of discovered instances for a given object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Display information about a given object instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmodify\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Modify properties of an object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBenable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Enable an object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Disable an object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfailover\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Cause target port group failover for a logical-unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBoverride\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Set a path to be used over other paths on a logical-unit.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmpathadm\fR subcommands operate on a \fIdirect-object\fR. These are
described in this section for each subcommand.
.SS "list Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBlist\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm list \fIdirect-object\fR [\fIoperands\fR...]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBlist\fR subcommand displays data for following direct-objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmpath-support\fR [\fImpath-support-name\fR, ...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the multipathing support that can be administered by this CLI. This
presents itself in the form of a library name registered through the MPAPI
framework. If no mpath-support name \fImpath-support-name\fR is specified, all
registered multipathing support libraries will be displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinitiator-port\fR [\fIinitiator-port-name\fR, ...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the initiator ports that are discovered on this system. If no
\fIinitiator-port-name\fR is specified, all discovered initiator ports are
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB{\fBlogical-unit\fR | \fBlu\fR} [\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIlogical-unit-name\fR, ...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the information on multipath logical units. If no \fIlogical-unit-name\fR
is specified, all discovered logical-units will be displayed.
.sp
Options for \fBlist logical-unit\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-name\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the logical unit name that is associated with the given name string.
This name can be extracted from the output of the \fBmpathadm\fR \fBshow lu\fR
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-target-port\fR \fItarget-port-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the list of logical units names that are associated with the given
\fItarget-port-name\fR.
.RE

.RE

.SS "\fBshow\fR Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBshow\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm show \fIdirect-object\fR [\fIoperands\fR...]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBshow\fR subcommand displays detailed information for following the
direct-objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmpath-support\fR [\fImpath-support-name\fR, ...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the detailed information on the given \fImpath-support-name\fR if the name
exists. If the given \fImpath-support-name\fR supports only a limited set of
device products, the list of device products will be listed as part of the
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinitiator-port\fR
\fIinitiator-port-name\fR[,\fIinitiator-port-name\fR, ...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the detailed information for the given \fIinitiator-port-name\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB{\fBlogical-unit\fR | \fBlu\fR} [\fIlogical-unit-name\fR, ...]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the detailed information on multipath logical unit(s), including path
and target port group information. Note that the name property in the logical
unit information represents the identifier for this LUN, derived from the
hardware, and used by this system. If the name is derived from SCSI Inquiry
Vital Product Data (VPD) page 83h, the name type property represents an
associated identifier type defined by the SCSI standards.
.RE

.SS "\fBmodify\fR Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBmodify\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm modify \fIdirect-object\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIoperands\fR...]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBmodify\fR subcommand modifies characteristics of the following
direct-objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmpath-support\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fImpath-support-name\fR, ...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration management of an \fImpath-support\fR. Options to modify
mpath-support are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-autofailback\fR on | off\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set \fBautofailback\fR. Applicable only when mpath-support provides auto
failback support.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-autoprobe\fR on | off\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set \fBautoprobing\fR. Applicable only when mpath-support provides auto probing
support.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-loadbalance\fR loadbalance-type\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change the default load balance type. The \fBloadbalance\fR type is one of the
supported types listed in the \fBshow mpath-support\fR output.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB{\fBlogical-unit\fR | \fBlu\fR} [\fIoptions\fR]
\fIlogical-unit-name\fR, ...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration management of a logical unit. Options to modify
\fBlogical-unit\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-autofailback\fR on | off\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set \fBautofailback\fR. Applicable only when \fBmpath-support\fR provides auto
failback support
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-autoprobe\fR on | off\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set \fBautoprobing\fR. Applicable only when \fBmpath-support\fR provides auto
probing support.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-loadbalance\fR loadbalance-type\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set load balance type for the logical unit. Applicable only when load balance
configuration is supported at the logical unit level.
.RE

.RE

.SS "\fBenable\fR Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBenable\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm disable [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBenable\fR subcommand supports the following direct-objects to be
enabled:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpath\fR \fB-i\fR \fIinitiator-port-name\fR \fB-t\fR
\fItarget-port-name\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlogical-unit-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path that consists of the specified initiator port, target port, and
logical unit will be enabled.
.RE

.SS "\fBdisable\fR Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBdisable\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm disable [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBdisable\fR subcommand supports the following direct-objects to be
disabled:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpath\fR \fB-i\fR \fIinitiator-port-name\fR \fB-t\fR
\fItarget-port-name\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlogical-unit-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The path that consists of the specified initiator port, target port, and
logical unit will be disabled.
.RE

.SS "\fBfailover\fR Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBfailover\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm failover \fIdirect-object\fR [\fIoperand\fR]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBfailover\fR subcommand supports failover for the following
direct-objects:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB{\fBlogical-unit\fR | \fBlu\fR} \fIlogical-unit-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The target port group will failover when the given logical-unit is asymmetric
and supports explicit state change. The currently active target port group will
be changed to the standby state and the standby target port group will be
active.
.RE

.SS "\fBoverride\fR Subcommand"
.sp
.LP
The syntax for the \fBoverride\fR subcommand is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mpathadm override [\fIoptions\fR]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBoverride\fR subcommand controls whether or not the following
direct-objects override another:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpath {\fB-i\fR \fIinitiator-port-name\fR \fB-t\fR \fItarget-port-name\fR |
\fB-c\fR}\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlogical-unit-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cause a path that consists of the specified initiator port, target port, and
logical unit to override other paths on the logical unit. Once a path overrides
other paths, the mpath-support uses only that path regardless of any other path
selection configuration. The \fB-c\fR option cancels the setting. The path that
consists of the specified initiator port, target port, and logical unit will be
disabled.
.sp
Options for override path are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-initiator-port\fR \fIinitiator-port-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represent the initiator port element of a path. Options \fB-t\fR and \fB-l\fR
must also be included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-target-port\fR \fItarget-port-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represent the target port element of a path. Options \fB-i\fR and \fB-l\fR must
also be included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-logical-unit\fR \fIlogical-unit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represent the logical unit element of a path. Options \fB-i\fR and \fB-t\fR
must also be included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-cancel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cancels overriding setting for the given logical unit. Option \fB-l\fR must
also be included.
.RE

.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-version\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Display the version information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-?\fR, \fB-\fR\fB-help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Display context help. Can be used following an \fBmpathadm\fR command with no
arguments, following a subcommand, or following a subcommand direct-object
combination. Responds with help information appropriate for your entry. For
example, if you enter:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm add mpath-support-help\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\&... \fBmpathadm\fR responds with a display of the options available for that
combination of subcommand and direct-object.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRObtaining a List of Multipathing Support
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBlist\fR subcommand to list all currently
registered \fBmpath-support\fR libraries.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm list mpath-support\fR
mpath-support: libmpscsi_vhci.so
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying the Properties of a Particular Multipathing Support
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBshow\fR subcommand to display the properties
for a currently registered \fBmpath-support\fR library.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm show mpath-support libmpscsi_vhci.so\fR
mpath-support:	libmpscsi_vhci.so
       Vendor:  Sun Microsystems
       Driver Name:  scsi_vhci
       Default Load Balance:  round-robin
       Supported Load Balance Types:
              round-robin
	      logical-block
Allows To Activate Target Port Group Access:  yes
Allows Path Override:  no
Supported Auto Failback Config:	 1
Auto Failback:	on
Failback Polling Rate (current/max):  0/0
Supported Auto Probing Config:	0
Auto Probing:  NA
Probing Polling Rate (current/max):  NA/NA
Supported Devices:
       Vendor:	 SUN
       Product:  T300
       Revision:
       Supported Load Balance Types:
              round-robin
       Vendor:	 SUN
       Product:  T4
       Revision:
       Supported Load Balance Types:
              round-robin
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRObtaining a List of Initiator Ports Discovered Through the
\fBmpath-support\fR Libraries
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBlist initiator-port\fR subcommand to display
a list of initiator ports discovered by the currently registered
\fBmpath-support\fR libraries.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm list initiator-port\fR
Initiator-Port: iqn.1986-03.com.sun:01:080020b7ac2b.437a3b3e,4000002a0000
Initiator-Port: 2000000173018713
Initiator-Port: 2000000173818713
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRDisplaying the Properties of a Particular Initiator Port
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBshow initiator-port\fR subcommand to display
the properties of a particular initiator port discovered using the \fBlist
initiator-port\fR subcommand in an example above.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm show initiator-port 2000000173018713\fR
initiator-port:	 2000000173018713
        Transport Type:	 Fibre Channel
        OS device File:	 devices/pci@1f,4000/pci@2/SUNW,qlca@5/fp@0,0:fc
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRDisplaying the Properties of a Particular Logical Unit
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBshow logical-unit\fR subcommand to display
the properties of the logical unit with the specified name.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm show lu /dev/rdsk/c4t60003BA27D2120004204AC2B000DAB00d0s2\fR
Logical Unit: /dev/rdsk/c4t60003BA27D2120004204AC2B000DAB00d0s2
	       mpath-support libmpscsi_vhci.so
	       Vendor: SUN
	       Product: T4
	       Revision: 0301
	Name Type: SCSI Inquiry VPD Page 83 type 3
	Name: 60003ba27d2120004204ac2b000dab00
	Asymmetric: yes
	Current Load Balance: round-robin
	Logical Unit Group ID: NA
	Aauto Failback: on
	Auto Probing: NA

Paths:
	Initiator Port Name: 2000000173818713
	Target Port Name: 20030003ba27d212
	Override Path: NA
	Path State: OK
	Disabled: no

	Initiator Port Name: 2000000173018713
	Target Port Name: 20030003ba27d095
	Override Path: NA
	Path State: OK
	Disabled: no

Target Port Group:
	ID: 2
	Explicit Failover: yes
	Access State: standby
	Target Ports:
			Name: 20030003ba27d212
		   Relative ID: 0

	ID: 5
	Explicit Failover: yes
	Access State: active
	Target Ports
			Name: 20030003ba27d095
		   Relative ID: 0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fREnabling a Path
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fBenable path\fR subcommand to enable the path
with the specified initiator port, target port, and logical unit.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm enable path -i 2000000173018713 -t 20030003ba27d095	 \e
-l /dev/rdsk/c4t60003BA27D2120004204AC2B000DAB00d0s2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRModifying \fBmpath-support\fR To Turn On \fBautofailback\fR
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBmpathadm modify mpath-support -a on libmpscsi_vhci.so\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstmsboot\fR(1M), \fBlibMPAPI\fR(3LIB), \fBexec_attr\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
