'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MPSTAT 1M "Mar 23, 2009"
.SH NAME
mpstat \- report per-processor or per-processor-set statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mpstat\fR [\fB-aq\fR] [\fB-p\fR | \fB-P\fR \fIset\fR] [\fB-T\fR u | d] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmpstat\fR command reports processor statistics in tabular form. Each row
of the table represents the activity of one processor. The first table
summarizes all activity since boot. Each subsequent table summarizes activity
for the preceding interval. All values are rates listed as events per second
unless otherwise noted.
.sp
.LP
During execution of the kernel status command, the \fBstate\fR of the kernel
can change. If relevant, a state change message is included in the \fBmpstat\fR
output, in one of the following forms:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<<processor 3 moved from pset: -1 to: 1>>
<<pset destroyed: 1>>
<<pset created: 1>>
<<processors added: 1, 3>>
<<processors removed: 1, 3>>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBmpstat\fR command reports the following information:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCPU\fR or \fBSET\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Without the \fB-a\fR option, \fBmpstat\fR reports \fBCPU\fR statistics for a
processor ID. With the \fB-a\fR option, \fBmpstat\fR reports \fBSET\fR
statistics for a processor set ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBminf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
minor faults
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmjf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
major faults
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxcal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
inter-processor cross-calls
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBintr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
interrupts
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBithr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
interrupts as threads (not counting clock interrupt)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcsw\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
context switches
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBicsw\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
involuntary context switches
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmigr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
thread migrations (to another processor)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsmtx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
spins on mutexes (lock not acquired on first try)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsrw\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
spins on readers/writer locks (lock not acquired on first try)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsyscl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
system calls
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBusr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
percent user time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsys\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
percent system time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
the I/O wait time is no longer calculated as a percentage of \fBCPU\fR time,
and this statistic will always return zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBidl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
percent idle time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsze\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
number of processors in the requested processor set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
processor set membership of each \fBCPU\fR
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Aggregate output by processor set. Sort the output by set. The default output
is sorted by \fBCPU\fR number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Report processor set membership of each \fBCPU\fR. Sort the output by set. The
default output is sorted by \fBCPU\fR number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display only those processors in the specified \fIset\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Suppress messages related to state changes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fBu\fR |  \fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specify \fBu\fR for a printed representation of the internal representation of
time. See \fBtime\fR(2). Specify \fBd\fR for standard date format. See
\fBdate\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Report once each \fIinterval\fR seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Only print \fIcount\fR reports.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBmpstat\fR to Generate User and System Operation
Statistics
.sp
.LP
The following command generates processor statistics over a five-second
interval in two reports. The command shows the processor set membership of each
\fBCPU\fR. The default output is sorted by \fBCPU\fR number, aggregated by
\fIprocessor set\fR, for user (\fBusr\fR) and system (\fBsys\fR) operations.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmpstat -ap 5 2\fR


SET minf mjf xcal intr ithr csw icsw migr smtx srw syscl usr sys wt idl sze
  0    6   0  355  291  190  22    0    0    0   0    43   0   2  0  43   1
  1   24  17  534  207  200  70    1    0    2   0   600   4   1  0  84   2
  2   19   7  353  325  318  44    0    0    5   0   345   1   1  0  94   3
  3   36   2  149  237  236  14    0    0    4   0    97   0   0  0  98   2
SET minf mjf xcal intr ithr csw icsw migr smtx srw syscl usr sys wt idl sze
  0    1   0  720  405  304  55    0    0   18   0    12   0  15  0  81   1
  1    0  69 1955  230  200 313   33    4   41   9  7086  34  10  0  19   2
  2    0  46  685  314  300 203   11    0   54   1  5287  36   6  0  28   3
  3    0   0   14  386  384   0    0    0    0   0     0   0   0  0 100   2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Invocation is evolving. Human readable output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsar\fR(1), \fBdate\fR(1), \fBiostat\fR(1M), \fBsar\fR(1M), \fBvmstat\fR(1M),
\fBtime\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The sum of \fBCPU\fR utilization might vary slightly from 100 due to rounding
errors in the production of a percentage figure.
.sp
.LP
The total time used for \fBCPU\fR processing is the sum of \fBusr\fR and
\fBsys\fR output values, reported for user and system operations. The \fBidl\fR
value reports the time that the \fBCPU\fR is idle for any reason other than
pending disk I/O operations.
.sp
.LP
Run the \fBiostat\fR command with the \fB-x\fR option to report I/O service
times in \fBsvc_t\fR output. The \fBiostat\fR utility also reports the same
\fBwt\fR, user (\fBus\fR), and system (\fBsy\fR) statistics. See
\fBiostat\fR(1M) for more information.
.sp
.LP
When executing in a \fBzone\fR and if the pools facility is active,
\fBmpstat\fR(1M) will only provide information for those processors which are a
member of the processor set of the pool to which the \fBzone\fR is bound.
