'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NDMPSTAT 1M "Jun 21, 2007"
.SH NAME
ndmpstat \- show NDMP backup progress statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBndmpstat\fR  [\fItapes\fR] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBndmpstat\fR utility reports Network Data Management Protocol (NDMP)
statistics, among which are  NDMP worker threads, disk IO, tape IO, files
operation, performance, and backup activity.
.sp
.LP
\fBndmpstat\fR reports the aggregate statistics for all tapes and disks. In
order to obtain statistics for specific tape devices, the tape device name
should be passed as argument to the utility.
.sp
.LP
When invoked, \fBndmpstat\fR begins its display with a one-line summary of the
NDMP daemon activity since the NDMP service was invoked.
.SS "Display Fields"
.sp
.LP
The fields in \fBndmpstat\fR output are described as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwthr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report the number of worker threads in each  of  the four following states:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of worker threads running
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of blocked worker threads that are waiting for resources such as I/O
and paging
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of backup operations currently running
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of restore operations currently running
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report on usage of filesystem.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of files being read
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of files being written
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisk\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report the number of disk operations per interval.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of disk blocks being read
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of disk blocks being written
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtape\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report the number of tape operations per interval. There are slots for up to
four tapes, labeled with a single number. The number indicates the name of the
device under \fB/dev/rmt\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of tape blocks being read
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of tape blocks being written
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbytes\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report the number of bytes transferred. This is the aggregate value of both
tape and disk devices. The number is in kilobytes.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of kilobytes being read
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
the number of kilobytes being written
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBperf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays a rough estimate of performance of the backup/restore operation in
megabytes per second.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbk\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
backup performance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
restore performance
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprcnt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the comparative usage of resources, in percent.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdsk\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
disk I/O time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtpe\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
tape I/O time
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBotr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
other time (memory or idle)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies the number of times that the statistics display is repeated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItape\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies which tapes are to be given priority in the output. A command line is
limited to a maximum of four tape devices. A common tape name is
\fB/dev/rmt/\fR\fIn\fR, where \fIn\fR is an integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies the number of seconds over which \fBndmpstat\fR summarizes activity.
The specified interval remains in effect till the command is terminated.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBndmpstat\fR
.sp
.LP
The following command displays a summary of NDMP daemon activity at five-second
intervals.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBndmpstat 5\fR
wthr     file      disk      tape        bytes      perf       prcnt
r w b r rd  wr    rd  wr   rd    wr     rd    wr   bk  rs  dsk  tpe  otr
1 0 3 6 50   9   1250  0  32544 4455   42335 3234   5  4   20   40   40
1 0 0 1  1   0    128  0    0   128     64    64    1  0    0   80   20
1 0 0 1  2   0    128  0    0     0     64     0    1  0   80    0   20
1 0 0 1  1   0    128  0    0     0     64     0    1  0   80    0   20
1 0 0 1  3   0    128  0    0     0     64     0    0  0   80    0   20
1 0 0 1  1   0    128  0    0   128     64    64    1  0    0   80   20
^C
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below
.TE

.sp
.LP
Invocation is evolving. Human readable output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiostat\fR(1M), \fBmpstat\fR(1M), \fBndmpd\fR(1M), \fBndmpadm\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Performance numbers are not accurate and are rounded up at the MB/sec.
boundary.
