'\" te
.\" Copyright 2018, Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH NETSTAT 1M "Sep 02, 2015"
.SH NAME
netstat \- show network status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR [\fB-anvR\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIprotocol\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-g\fR [\fB-nv\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-p\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-s\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIprotocol\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR u | d ] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-m\fR [\fB-T\fR u | d ] [\fB-v\fR] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-i\fR [\fB-I\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-acn\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR u | d ] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-r\fR [\fB-acnvR\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR | \fIfilter\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-M\fR [\fB-cns\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBnetstat\fR \fB-D\fR [\fB-I\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBnetstat\fR command displays the contents of certain network-related data
structures in various formats, depending on the options you select.
.LP
The \fBnetstat\fR command has the several forms shown in the SYNOPSIS section,
above, listed as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The first form of the command (with no required arguments) displays a list of
active sockets for each protocol.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The second, third, and fourth forms (\fB-g\fR, \fB-p\fR, and \fB-s\fR options)
display information from various network data structures.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The fifth form (\fB-m\fR option) displays STREAMS memory statistics.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The sixth form (\fB-i\fR option) shows the state of the interfaces.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The seventh form (\fB-r\fR option) displays the routing table.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The eighth form (\fB-M\fR option) displays the multicast routing table.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The ninth form (\fB-D\fR option) displays the state of \fBDHCP\fR on one or all
interfaces.
.RE
.LP
These forms are described in greater detail below.
.LP
With no arguments (the first form), \fBnetstat\fR displays connected sockets
for \fBPF_INET\fR, \fBPF_INET6\fR, and \fBPF_UNIX\fR, unless modified otherwise
by the \fB-f\fR option.
.SH OPTIONS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the state of all sockets, all routing table entries, or all interfaces,
both physical and logical. Normally, listener sockets used by server processes
are not shown. Under most conditions, only interface, host, network, and
default routes are shown and only the status of physical interfaces is shown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print IPv4 networks using CIDR (x.y.z.a/NN) notation with the \fB-i\fR,
\fB-r\fR, and \fB-M\fR options. IPv6 networks default to this, but due to
backward compatibility, IPv4 ones do not without this flag.  A noncontiguous
IPv4 netmask will print "/NM" if this flag is enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Limit all displays to those of the specified \fIaddress_family\fR. The value of
\fIaddress_family\fR can be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
For the \fBAF_INET\fR address family showing IPv4 information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinet6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
For the \fBAF_INET6\fR address family showing IPv6 information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunix\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
For the \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilter\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
With \fB-r\fR only, limit the display of routes to those matching the specified
filter. A filter rule consists of a \fIkeyword\fR:\fIvalue\fR pair. The known
keywords and the value syntax are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaf:\fR{\fBinet\fR|\fBinet6\fR|\fBunix\fR|\fInumber\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Selects an address family. This is identical to \fB-f\fR \fIaddress_family\fR
and both syntaxes are supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBoutif\fR:{\fIname\fR|\fIifIndex\fR|\fBany\fR|\fBnone\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Selects an output interface. You can specify the interface by name (such as
\fBhme0\fR) or by \fBifIndex\fR number (for example, \fB2\fR). If \fBany\fR is
used, the filter matches all routes having a specified interface (anything
other than null). If \fBnone\fR is used, the filter matches all routes having a
null interface. Note that you can view the index number (\fIifIndex\fR) for an
interface with the \fB-a\fR option of \fBifconfig\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdst\fR:{\fIip-address\fR[/\fImask\fR]|\fBany\fR|\fBnone\fR}\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Selects a destination IP address. If specified with a mask length, then any
routes with matching or longer (more specific) masks are selected. If \fBany\fR
is used, then all but addresses but 0 are selected. If \fBnone\fR is used, then
address 0 is selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflags:\fR[\fB+ -\fR]?[\fBABDGHLMSU\fR]\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Selects routes tagged with the specified flags. By default, the flags as
specified must be set in order to match. With a leading \fB+\fR, the flags
specified must be set but others are ignored. With a leading \fB-\fR, the flags
specified must not be set and others are permitted.
.RE

You can specify multiple instances of \fB-f\fR to specify multiple filters. For
example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% netstat -nr -f outif:hme0 -f outif:hme1 -f dst:10.0.0.0/8
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The preceding command displays routes within network 10.0.0.0/8, with mask
length 8 or greater, and an output interface of either \fBhme0\fR or
\fBhme1\fR, and excludes all other routes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the multicast group memberships for all interfaces. If the \fB-v\fR option
is included, source-specific membership information is also displayed. See
DISPLAYS, below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the state of the interfaces that are used for \fBIP\fR traffic. Normally
this shows statistics for the physical interfaces. When combined with the
\fB-a\fR option, this will also report information for the logical interfaces.
See \fBifconfig\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the STREAMS memory statistics.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show network addresses as numbers. \fBnetstat\fR normally displays addresses as
symbols. This option may be used with any of the display formats.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the net to media tables. See DISPLAYS, below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the routing tables. Normally, only interface, host, network, and default
routes are shown, but when this option is combined with the \fB-a\fR option,
all routes will be displayed, including cache. If you have not set up a
multicast route, \fB-ra\fR might not show any multicast routing entries,
although the kernel will derive such an entry if needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show per-protocol statistics. When used with the \fB-M\fR option, show
multicast routing statistics instead. When used with the \fB-a\fR option,
per-interface statistics will be displayed, when available, in addition to
statistics global to the system. See DISPLAYS, below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fBu\fR | \fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a time stamp.
.sp
Specify \fBu\fR for a printed representation of the internal representation of
time. See \fBtime\fR(2). Specify \fBd\fR for standard date format. See
\fBdate\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose. Show additional information for the sockets, STREAMS memory
statistics, routing table, and multicast group memberships.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fIinterface\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the state of a particular interface. \fIinterface\fR can be any valid
interface such as \fBhme0\fR or \fBeri0\fR. Normally, the status and statistics
for physical interfaces are displayed. When this option is combined with the
\fB-a\fR option, information for the logical interfaces is also reported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the multicast routing tables. When used with the \fB-s\fR option, show
multicast routing statistics instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIprotocol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Limit display of statistics or state of all sockets to those applicable to
\fIprotocol\fR. The protocol can be one of \fBip\fR, \fBipv6\fR, \fBicmp\fR,
\fBicmpv6\fR, \fBicmp\fR, \fBicmpv6\fR, \fBigmp\fR, \fBudp\fR, \fBtcp\fR,
\fBrawip\fR. \fBrawip\fR can also be specified as \fBraw\fR. The command
accepts protocol options only as all lowercase.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the status of \fBDHCP\fR configured interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This modifier displays extended security attributes for sockets and routing
table entries. The \fB-R\fR modifier is available only if the system is
configured with the Solaris Trusted Extensions feature.
.sp
With \fB-r\fR only, this option displays the routing entries' gateway security
attributes. See \fBroute\fR(1M) for more information on security attributes.
.sp
When displaying socket information using the first form of the command, this
option displays additional information for Multi-Level Port(MLP) sockets. This
includes:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The label for the peer if the socket is connected.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The following flags can be appended to the socket's "State" output:
.RS

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The socket is a MLP on zone-private IP addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The socket is a MLP on IP addresses shared between zones.
.RE
.SH OPERANDS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Display statistics accumulated since last display every \fIinterval\fR seconds,
repeating forever, unless \fIcount\fR is specified. When invoked with
\fIinterval\fR, the first row of netstat output shows statistics accumulated
since last reboot.
.sp
The following options support \fIinterval\fR: \fB-i\fR, \fB-m\fR, \fB-s\fR and
\fB-Ms\fR. Some values are configuration parameters and are just redisplayed at
each interval.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Display interface statistics the number of times specified by \fIcount\fR, at
the interval specified by \fIinterval\fR.
.RE

.SH DISPLAYS
.SS "Active Sockets (First Form)"
.LP
The display for each active socket shows the local and remote address, the send
and receive queue sizes (in bytes), the send and receive windows (in bytes),
and the internal state of the protocol.
.LP
The symbolic format normally used to display socket addresses is either:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBhostname\fR.\fIport\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
when the name of the host is specified, or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fInetwork\fR.\fIport\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp
if a socket address specifies a network but no specific host.
.LP
The numeric host address or network number associated with the socket is used
to look up the corresponding symbolic hostname or network name in the
\fIhosts\fR or \fInetworks\fR database.
.LP
If the network or hostname for an address is not known, or if the \fB-n\fR
option is specified, the numerical network address is shown. Unspecified, or
"wildcard", addresses and ports appear as an asterisk (\fB*\fR). For more
information regarding the Internet naming conventions, refer to \fBinet\fR(7P)
and \fBinet6\fR(7P).
.LP
For SCTP sockets, because an endpoint can be represented by multiple addresses,
the verbose option (\fB-v\fR) displays the list of all the local and remote
addresses.
.SS "\fITCP Sockets\fR"
.LP
The possible state values for \fBTCP\fR sockets are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Bound, ready to connect or listen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOSED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Closed. The socket is not being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOSING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Closed, then remote shutdown; awaiting acknowledgment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOSE_WAIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Remote shutdown; waiting for the socket to close.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESTABLISHED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Connection has been established.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFIN_WAIT_1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Socket closed; shutting down connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFIN_WAIT_2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Socket closed; waiting for shutdown from remote.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Idle, opened but not bound.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLAST_ACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Remote shutdown, then closed; awaiting acknowledgment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLISTEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Listening for incoming connections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSYN_RECEIVED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Initial synchronization of the connection under way.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSYN_SENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Actively trying to establish connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTIME_WAIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Wait after close for remote shutdown retransmission.
.RE

.SS "\fISCTP Sockets\fR"
.LP
The possible state values for SCTP sockets are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOSED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Closed. The socket is not being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLISTEN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Listening for incoming associations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESTABLISHED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Association has been established.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOOKIE_WAIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBINIT\fR has been sent to the peer, awaiting acknowledgment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOOKIE_ECHOED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
State cookie from the INIT-ACK has been sent to the peer, awaiting
acknowledgement.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHUTDOWN_PENDING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBSHUTDOWN\fR has been received from the upper layer, awaiting acknowledgement
of all outstanding \fBDATA\fR from the peer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHUTDOWN_SENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
All outstanding data has been acknowledged in the \fBSHUTDOWN_SENT\fR state.
\fBSHUTDOWN\fR has been sent to the peer, awaiting acknowledgement.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHUTDOWN_RECEIVED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBSHUTDOWN\fR has been received from the peer, awaiting acknowledgement of all
outstanding \fBDATA\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHUTDOWN_ACK_SENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
All outstanding data has been acknowledged in the \fBSHUTDOWN_RECEIVED\fR
state. \fBSHUTDOWN_ACK\fR has been sent to the peer.
.RE

.SS "Network Data Structures (Second Through Fifth Forms)"
.LP
The form of the display depends upon which of the \fB-g\fR, \fB-m\fR, \fB-p\fR,
or \fB-s\fR options you select.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the list of multicast group membership.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the memory usage, for example, STREAMS mblks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the net to media mapping table. For IPv4, the address resolution table
is displayed. See \fBarp\fR(1M). For IPv6, the neighbor cache is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the statistics for the various protocol layers.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The statistics use the MIB specified variables. The defined values for
\fBipForwarding\fR are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBforwarding (1)\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Acting as a gateway.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnot-forwarding (2)\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Not acting as a gateway.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The IPv6 and ICMPv6 protocol layers maintain per-interface statistics. If the
\fB-a\fR option is specified with the \fB-s\fR option, then the per-interface
statistics as well as the total sums are displayed. Otherwise, just the sum of
the statistics are shown.
.LP
For the second, third, and fourth forms of the command, you must specify at
least \fB-g\fR, \fB-p\fR, or \fB-s\fR. You can specify any combination of these
options. You can also specify \fB-m\fR (the fifth form) with any set of the
\fB-g\fR, \fB-p\fR, and \fB-s\fR options. If you specify more than one of these
options, \fBnetstat\fR displays the information for each one of them.
.SS "Interface Status (Sixth Form)"
.LP
The interface status display lists information for all current interfaces, one
interface per line. If an interface is specified using the \fB-I\fR option, it
displays information for only the specified interface.
.LP
The list consists of the interface name, \fBmtu\fR (maximum transmission unit,
or maximum packet size)(see \fBifconfig\fR(1M)), the network to which the
interface is attached, addresses for each interface, and counter associated
with the interface. The counters show the number of input packets, input
errors, output packets, output errors, and collisions, respectively. For
Point-to-Point interfaces, the Net/Dest field is the name or address on the
other side of the link.
.LP
If the \fB-a\fR option is specified with either the \fB-i\fR option or the
\fB-I\fR option, then the output includes names of the physical interface(s),
counts for input packets and output packets for each logical interface, plus
additional information.
.LP
If the \fB-n\fR option is specified, the list displays the IP address instead
of the interface name.
.LP
If an optional \fIinterval\fR is specified, the output will be continually
displayed in \fIinterval\fR seconds until interrupted by the user or until
\fIcount\fR is reached. See OPERANDS.
.LP
The physical interface is specified using the \fB-I\fR option. When used with
the \fIinterval\fR operand, output for the \fB-I\fR option has the following
format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
input    eri0          output        input          (Total)   output
packets  errs  packets errs  colls   packets  errs  packets  errs   colls
227681   0     659471  1     502     261331   0     99597    1      502
10       0     0       0     0       10       0     0        0      0
8        0     0       0     0       8        0     0        0      0
10       0     2       0     0       10       0     2        0      0
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
If the input interface is not specified, the first interface of address family
\fBinet\fR or \fBinet6\fR will be displayed.
.SS "Routing Table (Seventh Form)"
.LP
The routing table display lists the available routes and the status of each.
Each route consists of a destination host or network, and a gateway to use in
forwarding packets. The \fIflags\fR column shows the status of the route. These
flags are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBU\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Indicates route is \fBup\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Route is to a gateway.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Route is to a host and not a network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Redundant route established with the \fB-multirt\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Route was established using the \fB-setsrc\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Route was created dynamically by a redirect.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the \fB-a\fR option is specified, there will be routing entries with the
following flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Combined routing and address resolution entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBB\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Broadcast addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Local addresses for the host.
.RE

.LP
Interface routes are created for each interface attached to the local host; the
gateway field for such entries shows the address of the outgoing interface.
.LP
The \fBuse\fR column displays the number of packets sent using a combined
routing and address resolution (\fBA\fR) or a broadcast (\fBB\fR) route. For a
local (\fBL\fR) route, this count is the number of packets received, and for
all other routes it is the number of times the routing entry has been used to
create a new combined route and address resolution entry.
.LP
The \fIinterface\fR entry indicates the network interface utilized for the
route.
.SS "Multicast Routing Tables (Eighth Form)"
.LP
The multicast routing table consists of the virtual interface table and the
actual routing table.
.SS "DHCP Interface Information (Ninth Form)"
.LP
The \fBDHCP\fR interface information consists of the interface name, its
current state, lease information, packet counts, and a list of flags.
.LP
The states correlate with the specifications set forth in \fIRFC 2131\fR.
.LP
Lease information includes:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
when the lease began;
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
when lease renewal will begin; and
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
when the lease will expire.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The flags currently defined include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBOOTP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The interface has a lease obtained through \fBBOOTP\fR (IPv4 only).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The interface is busy with a \fBDHCP\fR transaction.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPRIMARY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The interface is the primary interface. See \fBdhcpinfo\fR(1) and
\fBifconfig\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFAILED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The interface is in failure state and must be manually restarted.
.RE

.LP
Packet counts are maintained for the number of packets sent, the number of
packets received, and the number of lease offers declined by the \fBDHCP\fR
client. All three counters are initialized to zero and then incremented while
obtaining a lease. The counters are reset when the period of lease renewal
begins for the interface. Thus, the counters represent either the number of
packets sent, received, and declined while obtaining the current lease, or the
number of packets sent, received, and declined while attempting to obtain a
future lease.
.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/inet_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fBDEFAULT_IP\fR setting
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBarp\fR(1M), \fBdhcpinfo\fR(1), \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M),
\fBiostat\fR(1M), \fBkstat\fR(1M), \fBmibiisa\fR(1M), \fBndp\fR(1M), \fBsavecore\fR(1M),
\fBvmstat\fR(1M), \fBhosts\fR(4), \fBinet_type\fR(4), \fBnetworks\fR(4),
\fBprotocols\fR(4), \fBservices\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdhcp\fR(5),
\fBkstat\fR(7D), \fBinet\fR(7P), \fBinet6\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
Droms, R., \fIRFC 2131, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol\fR, Network Working
Group, March 1997.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R. \fIRFC 3315, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6
(DHCPv6)\fR. Cisco Systems. July 2003.
.SH NOTES
.LP
When displaying interface information, \fBnetstat\fR honors the
\fBDEFAULT_IP\fR setting in \fB/etc/default/inet_type\fR. If it is set to
\fBIP_VERSION4\fR, then \fBnetstat\fR will omit information relating to IPv6
interfaces, statistics, connections, routes and the like.
.LP
However, you can override the \fBDEFAULT_IP\fR setting in
\fB/etc/default/inet_type\fR on the command-line. For example, if you have used
the command-line to explicitly request IPv6 information by using the
\fBinet6\fR address family or one of the IPv6 protocols, it will override the
\fBDEFAULT_IP\fR setting.
.LP
If you need to examine network status information following a kernel crash, use
the \fBmdb\fR(1) utility on the \fBsavecore\fR(1M) output.
.LP
The \fBnetstat\fR utility obtains TCP statistics from the system by opening
\fB/dev/tcp\fR and issuing queries. Because of this, \fBnetstat\fR might
display an extra, unused connection in \fBIDLE\fR state when reporting
connection status.
.LP
Previous versions of \fBnetstat\fR had undocumented methods for reporting
kernel statistics published using the \fBkstat\fR(7D) facility. This
functionality has been removed. Use \fBkstat\fR(1M) instead.
.LP
\fBnetstat\fR restricts its output to information that is relevant to the zone
in which \fBnetstat\fR runs. (This is true for both shared-IP and exclusive-IP
zones.)
