'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NEWALIASES 1M "Sep 14, 2001"
.SH NAME
newaliases \- rebuild the data base for the mail aliases file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnewaliases\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnewaliases\fR rebuilds the random access data base for the mail aliases file
\fB/etc/mail/aliases\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBnewaliases\fR accepts all the flags that \fBsendmail\fR(1M) accepts.
However, most of these flags have no effect, except for the \fB-C\fR option and
three of the \fBProcessing\fR \fBOptions\fR that can be set from a
configuration file with the \fB-o\fR option:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fI /path/to/alt/config/file\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use alternate configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-oA\fR\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify possible alias files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-oL\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the default log level to \fIn\fR. Defaults to \fB9\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-on\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Validate the \fBRHS\fR of aliases when rebuilding the \fBaliases\fR(4)
database.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBnewaliases\fR runs in verbose mode (\fB-v\fR option) automatically.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRunning the \fBnewaliases\fR Command
.sp
.LP
The following command runs \fBnewaliases\fR on an alias file different from the
\fB/etc/mail/aliases\fR default in \fBsendmail\fR(1M):

.sp
.in +2
.nf
 example% \fBnewaliases \fR\fB-oA\fR\fB\fI/path/to/alternate/alias/file\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
\fBnewaliases\fR returns an exit status describing what it did. The codes are
defined in \fB/usr/include/sysexits.h\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Successful completion on all addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_NOUSER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
User name not recognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_UNAVAILABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Catchall. Necessary resources were not available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_SYNTAX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Syntax error in address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_SOFTWARE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Internal software error, including bad arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_OSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Temporary operating system error, such as "cannot fork".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_NOHOST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Host name not recognized.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEX_TEMPFAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Message could not be sent immediately, but was queued.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/aliases\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Symbolic link to \fB/etc/mail/aliases\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail/aliases.pag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail/aliases.dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
\fBndbm\fR files maintained by \fBnewaliases\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail/aliases.db\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Berkeley DataBase file maintained by newaliases
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsendmail\fR(1M), \fBaliases\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
