'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NFSD 1M "Jul 22, 2008"
.SH NAME
nfsd \- NFS daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/nfs/nfsd\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fI#_conn\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlisten_backlog\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIdevice\fR] [\fInservers\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnfsd\fR is the daemon that handles client file system requests. Only users
with \fB{PRIV_SYS_NFS}\fR and sufficient privileges to write to \fB/var/run\fR
can run this daemon.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnfsd\fR daemon is automatically invoked using \fBshare\fR(1M) with the
\fB-a\fR option.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBnfsd\fR starts over the TCP and UDP transports for versions 2
and 3. By default, it starts over the TCP for version 4. You can change this
with the \fB-p\fR option.
.sp
.LP
A previously invoked \fBnfsd\fR daemon started with or without options must be
stopped before invoking another \fBnfsd\fR command.
.sp
.LP
To change startup parameters for \fBnfsd\fR, use the \fBsharectl\fR(1M) and
\fBsharemgr\fR(1M) commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Start a \fBNFS\fR daemon over all available connectionless and
connection-oriented transports, including UDP and TCP. Equivalent of setting
the \fBNFSD_PROTOCOL\fR parameter to \fBALL\fR in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fI#_conn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This sets the maximum number of connections allowed to the \fBNFS\fR server
over connection-oriented transports. By default, the number of connections is
unlimited. Equivalent of the \fBNFSD_MAX_CONNECTIONS\fR parameter in the
\fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set connection queue length for the \fBNFS TCP\fR over a connection-oriented
transport. The default value is 32 entries. Equivalent of the
\fBNFSD_LISTEN_BACKLOG\fR parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprotocol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Start a \fBNFS\fR daemon over the specified protocol. Equivalent of the
\fBNFSD_PROTOCOL\fR parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Start a \fBNFS\fR daemon for the transport specified by the given device.
Equivalent of the \fBNFSD_DEVICE\fR parameter in the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInservers\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
This sets the maximum number of concurrent \fBNFS\fR requests that the server
can handle. This concurrency is achieved by up to \fInservers\fR threads
created as needed in the kernel. \fInservers\fR should be based on the load
expected on this server. 16 is the usual number of \fInservers\fR. If
\fInservers\fR is not specified, the maximum number of concurrent \fBNFS\fR
requests will default to 1. Equivalent of the \fBNFSD_SERVERS\fR parameter in
the \fBnfs\fR file.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the \fBNFS_PORTMON\fR variable is set in \fB/etc/system\fR, then clients are
required to use privileged ports (ports < \fBIPPORT_RESERVED\fR) to get
\fBNFS\fR services. This variable is equal to zero by default. This variable
has been moved from the "nfs" module to the "nfssrv" module. To set the
variable, edit the \fB/etc/system\fR file and add this entry:
.sp
.LP
\fBset\fR \fBnfssrv:nfs_portmon\fR \fB=\fR \fB1\fR
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Daemon started successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Daemon failed to start.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.nfs\fIXXX\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Client machine pointer to an open-but-unlinked file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/nfs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Contains startup parameters for \fBnfsd\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/system\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
System configuration information file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/nfs/v4_state\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB/var/nfs/v4_oldstate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Directories used by the server to manage client state information. These
directories should not be removed.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBps\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBmountd\fR(1M), \fBshare\fR(1M),
\fBsharectl\fR(1M), \fBsharemgr\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBnfs\fR(4),
\fBsharetab\fR(4), \fBsystem\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Manually starting and restarting \fBnfsd\fR is not recommended. If it is
necessary to do so, use \fBsvcadm\fR to enable or disable the \fBnfs\fR service
(\fBsvc:/network/nfs/server\fR). If it is disabled, it will be enabled by
\fBshare_nfs\fR(1M), unless its \fBapplication/auto_enable\fR property is set
to \fBfalse\fR. See the \fI\fR, and \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) for more information.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnfsd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/nfs/server
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
If \fBnfsd\fR is killed with \fBSIGTERM\fR, it will not be restarted by the
service management facility. Instead, \fBnfsd\fR can be restarted by other
signals, such as \fBSIGINT\fR.
