'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.  This program is distributed
.\" in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program
.\" (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);  if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH NTFSCAT 1M "May 28, 2009"
.SH NAME
ntfscat \- display NTFS files and streams on the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBntfscat\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBntfscat\fR command reads a file or stream from an NTFS volume and
display the contents on the standard output.
.sp
.LP
The case of the filename passed to \fBntfscat\fR is ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Most options have both single-letter and
full-name forms. Multiple single-letter options that do not take an argument
can be combined. For example, \fB-fv\fR is the equivalent of \fB-f\fR \fB-v\fR.
A full-name option can be abbreviated to a unique prefix of its name.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR, \fB--attribute\fR \fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the contents of a particular attribute type. By default, the unnamed
\fB$DATA\fR attribute will be shown. The attribute can be specified by a number
in decimal or hexadecimal, or by name.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Hex     Decimal Name
0x10    16      "$STANDARD_INFORMATION"
0x20    32      "$ATTRIBUTE_LIST"
0x30    48      "$FILE_NAME"
0x40    64      "$OBJECT_ID"
0x50    80      "$SECURITY_DESCRIPTOR"
0x60    96      "$VOLUME_NAME"
0x70    112     "$VOLUME_INFORMATION"
0x80    128     "$DATA"
0x90    144     "$INDEX_ROOT"
0xA0    160     "$INDEX_ALLOCATION"
0xB0    176     "$BITMAP"
0xC0    192     "$REPARSE_POINT"
0xD0    208     "$EA_INFORMATION"
0xE0    224     "$EA"
0xF0    240     "$PROPERTY_SET"
0x100   256     "$LOGGED_UTILITY_STREAM"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The attribute names can be specified without the leading dollar sign (\fB$\fR)
symbol. If you use the \fB$\fR symbol, you must quote the name to prevent the
shell from interpreting the name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overrides some sensible defaults, such as not using a mounted volume. Use this
option with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show a list of options with a brief description of each.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR, \fB--inode\fR \fInum\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a file by its inode number instead of its name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR, \fB--attribute-name\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the attribute identified by \fIname\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress some debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the version number, copyright, and license information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display more debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisplaying Contents of File in Root
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the contents of a file in the root of an NTFS
volume.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscat /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 boot.ini\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying Contents of File in Subdirectory
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the contents of a file in a subdirectory of an
NTFS volume.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscat /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 /winnt/system32/drivers/etc/hosts\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDisplay Contents of an Attribute
.sp
.LP
The following command displays the contents of the \fB$INDEX_ROOT\fR attribute
of the root directory (inode 5).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscat /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 -a INDEX_ROOT -i 5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBntfsls\fR(1M), \fBntfsprogs\fR(1M), \fBparted\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
\fBntfscat\fR was written by Richard Russon, Anton Altaparmakov and Szabolcs
Szakacsits.
