'\" te
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Szabolcs Szakacsits
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Richard Russon
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Yura Pakhuchiy
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation ; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.  This program is distributed
.\" in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program
.\" (in the main directory of the Linux-NTFS distribution in the file COPYING);  if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 11-1307 USA
.TH NTFSCP 1M "May 28, 2009"
.SH NAME
ntfscp \- copy file to an NTFS volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBntfscp\fR  [\fIoptions\fR] \fIdevice\fR \fIsource_file\fR \fIdestination\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBntfscp\fR utility copies files to an NTFS volume. \fIdestination\fR (see
Synopis) can be either a file or a directory. If \fIdestination\fR is a
directory specified by name, \fIsource_file\fR is copied into this directory.
If \fIdestination\fR is a directory specified by inode number, an unnamed data
attribute is created for this inode and \fIsource_file\fR is copied into it.
Consider  possible negative consequence before specifying a directory by inode
number: it is unusual to have an unnamed data stream in a directory.
.SS "Data Streams"
.sp
.LP
All data on NTFS is stored in streams, which can have names. A file can have
more than one data stream, but exactly one must have no name. The size of a
file is the size of its unnamed data stream. Usually, when you do not specify a
stream name, you are seeking access to the unnamed data stream. If you want
access to a named data stream, you need to add \fB:\fR\fIstream_name\fR to the
filename. For example, by opening \fBsome.mp3:artist\fR you will open stream
\fBartist\fR in \fBsome.mp3\fR. In an operating system, such as Windows, that
prevents you from accessing named data streams, you need to use some program
like \fBFAR\fR or utilities from \fBcygwin\fR to access those streams.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Supported options are listed below. Most options have both single-letter and
full-name forms. Multiple single-letter options that do not take an argument
can be combined. For example, \fB-fv\fR is the equivalent of \fB-f\fR \fB-v\fR.
A full-name option can be abbreviated to a unique prefix of its name.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR, \fB--attribute\fR \fInum\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write to attribute designated by \fInum\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR, \fB--force\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Overrides some sensible defaults, such as not working with a mounted volume.
Use this option with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show a list of options with a brief description of each one.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR, \fB--inode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Treat \fIdestination\fR (see Synopsis) as inode number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR, \fB--attr-name\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write to attribute with this name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR, \fB--no-action\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use this option to make a test run before doing the actual copy operation.
Volume will be opened read-only and no write will be done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress some debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR, \fB--version\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show the version number, copyright, and license information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display more debug, warning, and error messages.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCopying from Home to Root Directory
.sp
.LP
The following command copies \fBnew_boot.ini\fR from \fB/home/user\fR as
\fBboot.ini\fR to the root of an \fB/dev/dsk/c0d0p1\fR NTFS volume.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscp /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 /home/user/new_boot.ini boot.ini\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRCopying a Stream
.sp
.LP
The following command copies \fBmyfile\fR to \fBC:\some\path\myfile:stream\fR
(assume that \fB/dev/dsk/c0d0p1\fR drive designator is \fBC\fR).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBntfscp -N stream /dev/dsk/c0d0p1 myfile /some/path\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBntfsresize\fR(1M), \fBntfsprogs\fR(1M), \fBparted\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
http://wiki.linux-ntfs.org
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
\fBntfscp\fR was written by Yura Pakhuchiy, with contributions from Anton
Altaparmakov and Hil Liao.
