.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 19, 2018
.Dt NVMEADM 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nvmeadm
.Nd NVMe administration utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl h
.Op Ar command
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm list
.Op Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm identify
.Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm get-logpage
.Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Ar logpage
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm get-features
.Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Op Ar feature-list
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm format
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Op Ar lba-format
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm secure-erase
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Op Fl c
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm detach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm attach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility can be used to enumerate the NVMe controllers and their
namespaces, query hardware information from a NVMe controller or
namespace, and to format or secure-erase a NVMe controller or
namespace.
.Pp
The information returned by the hardware is printed by
.Nm
in a human-readable form were applicable.
Generally all 0-based counts are normalized and values may be
converted to human-readable units such as MB (megabytes), W (watts),
or C (degrees Celsius).
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print a short help text for
.Nm ,
or for an optionally specified
.Nm
command.
.It Fl d
Enable debugging output.
.It Fl v
Enable verbose output.
.El
.Sh ARGUMENTS
.Nm
expects the following kinds of arguments:
.Bl -tag -width "ctl[/ns]"
.It Ar command
Any command
.Nm
understands.
See section
.Sx COMMANDS .
.It Ar ctl[/ns]
Specifies a NVMe controller and optionally a namespace within that
controller.
The controller name consists of the driver name
.Qq nvme
followed by an instance number.
A namespace is specified by appending a single
.Qq /
followed by the namespace ID to the controller name.
The namespace ID is the EUI64 of the namespace, or a positive non-zero
decimal number if the namespace doesn't have an EUI64.
For commands that don't change the device state multiple controllers
and namespaces can be specified as a comma-separated list.
.Pp
The list of controllers and namespaces present in the system can be
queried with the
.Cm list
command without any arguments.
.It Ar logpage
Specifies the log page name for the
.Cm get-logpage
command.
.It Ar feature-list
A comma-separated list of feature names for the
.Cm get-features
command.
Feature names can be specified in upper or lower case and can be
shortened the shortest unique name.
Some features may also have an alternative short name.
.It Ar lba-format
A non-zero integer specifying the LBA format for the
.Cm format
command.
The list of supported LBA formats on a namespace can be retrieved
with the
.Nm
.Cm identify
command.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm list
.Op Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Xc
Lists the NVMe controllers and their namespaces in the system and
prints a 1-line summary of their basic properties for each.
If a list of controllers and/or namespaces is given then the listing
is limited to those devices.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm identify
.Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Xc
Print detailed information about the specified controllers and/or
namespaces.
The information returned differs depending on whether a controller or
a namespace is specified.
For an explanation of the data printed by this command refer to the
description of the
.Qq IDENTIFY
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm get-logpage
.Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Ar logpage
.Xc
Print the specified log page of the specified controllers and/or namespaces.
Most log pages are only available on a per-controller basis.
Known log pages are:
.Bl -tag -width "firmware"
.It error
Error Information
.It health
SMART/Health Information.
A controller may support this log page on a per-namespace basis.
.It firmware
Firmware Slot Information
.El
.Pp
For an explanation of the contents of the log pages refer to the
description of the
.Qq GET LOGPAGE
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm get-features
.Ar ctl[/ns][,...]
.Op Ar feature-list
.Xc
Prints information about the specified features, or all features if
none are given, of the specified controllers and/or namespaces.
Feature names are case-insensitive, and they can be shortened as long
as they remain unique.
Some features also have alternative short names to which the same
rules apply.
The following features are supported:
.Pp
.TS
tab(:);
l l l.
FULL NAME:SHORT NAME:CONTROLLER/NAMESPACE
Arbitration::controller
Power Management::controller
LBA Range Type:range:namespace
Temperature Threshold::controller
Error Recovery::controller
Volatile Write Cache:cache:controller
Number of Queues:queues:controller
Interrupt Coalescing:coalescing:controller
Interrupt Vector Configuration:vector:controller
Write Atomicity:atomicity:controller
Asynchronous Event Configuration:event:controller
Autonomous Power State Transition::controller
Software Progress Marker:progress:controller
.TE
.Pp
For an explanation of the individual features refer to the description
of the
.Qq SET FEATURES
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm format
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Op Ar lba-format
.Xc
Formats the specified namespace or all namespaces of the specified
controller.
This command implies a
.Nm
.Cm detach
and subsequent
.Nm
.Cm attach
of the specified namespace(s), which will cause a changed LBA format
to be detected.
If no LBA format is specified the LBA format currently used by the
namespace will be used.
When formatting all namespaces without specifying a LBA format the LBA
format of namespace 1 will be used.
A list of LBA formats supported by a namespace can be queried with the
.Nm
.Cm identify
command.
.Pp
Note that not all devices support formatting individual or all
namespaces, or support formatting at all.
.Pp
LBA formats using a non-zero metadata size are not supported by
.Nm
or
.Xr nvme 7D .
.Pp
The list of supported LBA formats on a namespace can be retrieved
with the
.Nm
.Cm identify
command.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm secure-erase
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Op Fl c
.Xc
Erases the specified namespace or all namespaces of the controller.
The flag
.Fl c
will cause a cryptographic erase instead of a normal erase.
This command implies a
.Nm
.Cm detach
and
.Nm
.Cm attach
of the specified namespace(s).
.Pp
Note that not all devices support erasing individual or all
namespaces, or support erasing at all.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm detach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Xc
Temporarily detaches the
.Xr blkdev 7D
instance from the specified namespace or all namespaces of the controller.
This will prevent I/O access to the affected namespace(s).
Detach will only succeed if the affected namespace(s) are not
currently opened.
The detached state will not persist across reboots or reloads of the
.Xr nvme 7D
driver.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm attach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Xc
Attaches the
.Xr blkdev 7D
instance to the specified namespace or all namespaces of the controller.
This will make I/O accesses to the namespace(s) possible again after a
previous
.Nm
.Cm detach
command.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Sy Example 1: List all NVMe controllers and namespaces
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm list
nvme1: model: INTEL SSDPEDMD800G4, serial: CVFT4134001R800CGN, FW rev: 8DV10049, NVMe v1.0
  nvme1/1 (c1t1d0): Size = 763097 MB, Capacity = 763097 MB, Used = 763097 MB
nvme4: model: SAMSUNG MZVPV128HDGM-00000, serial: S1XVNYAGA00640, FW rev: BXW7300Q, NVMe v1.1
  nvme4/1 (c2t2d0): Size = 122104 MB, Capacity = 122104 MB, Used = 5127 MB
.Ed
.It Sy Example 2: Identify a namespace
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm identify nvme4/1
nvme4/1: Identify Namespace
  Namespace Capabilities and Features
    Namespace Size:                         122104MB
    Namespace Capacity:                     122104MB
    Namespace Utilization:                  5127MB
    Namespace Features
      Thin Provisioning:                    unsupported
    Number of LBA Formats:                  1
    Formatted LBA Size
      LBA Format:                           1
      Extended Data LBA:                    no
    Metadata Capabilities
      Extended Data LBA:                    unsupported
      Separate Metadata:                    unsupported
    End-to-End Data Protection Capabilities
      Protection Information Type 1:        unsupported
      Protection Information Type 2:        unsupported
      Protection Information Type 3:        unsupported
      Protection Information first:         unsupported
      Protection Information last:          unsupported
    End-to-End Data Protection Settings
      Protection Information:               disabled
      Protection Information in Metadata:   last 8 bytes
    LBA Format 1
      Metadata Size:                        0 bytes
      LBA Data Size:                        512 bytes
      Relative Performance:                 Best
.Ed
.It Sy Example 3: Get SMART/Health information (verbose)
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm -v get-logpage nvme4/1 health
nvme4/1: SMART/Health Information
  Critical Warnings
    Available Space:                        OK
    Temperature:                            OK
    Device Reliability:                     OK
    Media:                                  OK
    Volatile Memory Backup:                 OK
  Temperature:                              37C
  Available Spare Capacity:                 100%
  Available Spare Threshold:                10%
  Device Life Used:                         0%
  Data Read:                                0GB
  Data Written:                             64GB
  Read Commands:                            52907
  Write Commands:                           567874
  Controller Busy:                          1min
  Power Cycles:                             6
  Power On:                                 141h
  Unsafe Shutdowns:                         1
  Uncorrectable Media Errors:               0
  Errors Logged:                            1
.Ed
.It Sy Example 4: Get Asynchronous Event Configuration information
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm get-features nvme0,nvme4 event,power
nvme0: Get Features
  Asynchronous Event Configuration
    Available Space below threshold:        disabled
    Temperature above threshold:            disabled
    Device Reliability compromised:         disabled
    Media read-only:                        disabled
  Power Management
    Power State:                            0
nvme4: Get Features
  Asynchronous Event Configuration
    Available Space below threshold:        disabled
    Temperature above threshold:            disabled
    Device Reliability compromised:         disabled
    Media read-only:                        disabled
    Volatile Memory Backup failed:          disabled
  Power Management
    Power State:                            0
.Ed
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line interface of
.Nm
is
.Sy Evolving .
The output of
.Nm
is
.Sy Not-an-Interface
and may change any time.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nvme 7D
.Pp
.Lk http://www.nvmexpress.org/specifications/ "NVMe specifications"
