'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Peter Tribble
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PMCONFIG 1M "May 1, 2017"
.SH NAME
pmconfig \- Configure the Power Management system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/pmconfig\fR [\fB-r\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpmconfig\fR utility sets the Power Management and suspend-resume
configuration. User has permission to change Power Management configuration
using \fBpmconfig\fR only if he is allowed to do so according to
\fBPMCHANGEPERM\fR keyword of \fB/etc/default/power\fR. User has permission to
change the suspend-resume configuration using \fBpmconfig\fR only if he is
allowed to do so according to the \fBCPRCHANGEPERM\fR keyword of
\fB/etc/default/power\fR. See FILES section below for a description of the
\fBPMCHANGEPERM\fR and \fBCPRCHANGEPERM\fR keywords of
\fB/etc/default/power\fR.
.sp
.LP
Based on user permissions, \fBpmconfig\fR first resets the Power Management
and/or suspend-resume state back to its default and then reads the new
Power Management and/or suspend-resume configuration from
\fB/etc/power.conf\fR and issues the commands to activate the new
configuration. The \fBpmconfig\fR utility is run at system boot. This utility
can also be run from the command line after manual changes have been made to
the \fB/etc/power.conf\fR file. For changes made to the
\fB/etc/power.conf\fR file to take effect, users must run \fBpmconfig\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Reset Power Management and suspend-resume state to default and exit. User
must have both Power Management and suspend-resume configuration permission
for this option.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Upon successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/power.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
System Power Management configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/power\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
File that controls permissions for system's Power Management and
suspend-resume features. The \fBPMCHANGEPERM\fR keyboard controls the Power
Management configuration permissions, while the \fBCPRCHANGEPERM\fR keyword
controls the suspend-resume configuration permissions.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Allowed values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBall\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Any user can change the configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
No one except super-user can change the configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB<user1, user2,...>\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A user in this user list or a super-user can change the configuration. The
user list is a space and/or comma (,) separated list. You must enclose the list
in < and > characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBconsole-owner\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A user who owns the system console device node or a super-user can change the
configuration.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The default values are \fBPMCHANGEPERM=console-owner\fR and
\fBCPRCHANGEPERM=console-owner\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability 	Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBpowerd\fR(1M), \fBpower.conf\fR(4), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBcpr\fR(7), \fBpm\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIUsing Power Management\fR
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBpmconfig\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/power:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
If the program cannot open the configuration file, it prints an error message
to standard error. If the program encounters a syntax error in the
configuration file, it prints an error message and the line number of the error
in the configuration file. It then skips the rest of the information on that
line and processes the next line. Any configuration information already
processed on the line containing the error is used. If user does not have
permission to change Power Management and/or suspend-resume configuration, and
configuration file has entries for which user doesn't have permission, it
process the entries for which user has permissions and prints error on rest.
