'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed by the University of California, Berkeley.  The name of the University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH PPPSTATS 1M "May 4, 2001"
.SH NAME
pppstats \- print PPP statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpppstats\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-z\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fI<count>\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fI<secs>\fR]
     [\fIinterface\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpppstats\fR utility reports PPP-related statistics at regular intervals
for the specified PPP interface. If the interface is unspecified,
\fBpppstats\fR defaults to \fBsppp0\fR. The display is split horizontally into
input and output sections containing columns of statistics describing the
properties and volume of packets received and transmitted by the interface.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpppstats\fR options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display absolute values rather than deltas. With this option, all reports show
statistics for the time elapsed since the link was initiated. Without this
option, the second and subsequent reports show statistics for the time since
the last report.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fB\fIcount\fR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Repeat the display \fIcount\fR times. If this option is not specified, the
default repeat count is 1 if the \fB-w\fR option is not specified, otherwise
infinity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display additional statistics summarizing the compression ratio achieved by the
packet compression algorithm in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display additional statistics relating to the performance of the Van Jacobson
TCP header compression algorithm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fB\fIwait\fR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pause  \fIwait\fR seconds between each display. If this option is not
specified, the default interval is five seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Instead of the standard display, show statistics indicating the performance of
the packet compression algorithm in use.
.RE

.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The following fields are printed on the input side when the \fB-z\fR option is
not used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIN\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Total number of bytes received by this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPACK\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Total number of packets received by this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJCOMP\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Number of header-compressed TCP packets received by this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJUNC\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Number of header-uncompressed TCP packets received by this interface. Not
reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJERR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Number of corrupted or bogus header-compressed TCP packets received by this
interface. Not reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJTOSS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Number of VJ header-compressed TCP packets dropped on reception by this
interface because of preceding errors. Only reported when the \fB-v\fR option
is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNON-VJ\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Total number of non-TCP packets received by this interface. Only reported when
the \fB-v\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRATIO\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Compression ratio achieved for received packets by the packet compression
scheme in use, defined as the uncompressed size divided by the compressed size.
Only reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUBYTE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Total number of bytes received, after decompression of compressed packets. Only
reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following fields are printed on the output side:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Total number of bytes transmitted from this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Total number of packets transmitted from this interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJCOMP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Number of TCP packets transmitted from this interface with VJ-compressed TCP
headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJUNC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Number of TCP packets transmitted from this interface with VJ-uncompressed TCP
headers. Not reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNON-VJ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Total number of non-TCP packets transmitted from this interface. Not reported
when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJSRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Number of searches for the cached header entry for a VJ header compressed TCP
packet. Only reported when the \fB-v\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVJMISS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Number of failed searches for the cached header entry for a VJ header
compressed TCP packet. Only reported when the \fB-v\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRATIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Compression ratio achieved for transmitted packets by the packet compression
scheme in use, defined as the size before compression divided by the compressed
size. Only reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUBYTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Total number of bytes to be transmitted before packet compression is applied.
Only reported when the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When the \fB-z\fR option is specified, \fBpppstats\fR displays the following
fields relating to the packet compression algorithm currently in use. If packet
compression is not in use, these fields display zeroes. The fields displayed on
the input side are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOMPRESSED BYTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of bytes of compressed packets received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOMPRESSED PACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of compressed packets received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINCOMPRESSIBLE BYTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of bytes of incompressible packets (that is, those which were
transmitted in uncompressed form) received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINCOMPRESSIBLE PACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of incompressible packets received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOMP RATIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Recent compression ratio for incoming packets, defined as the uncompressed size
divided by the compressed size (including both compressible and incompressible
packets).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The fields displayed on the output side are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOMPRESSED BYTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of bytes of compressed packets transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOMPRESSED PACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of compressed packets transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINCOMPRESSIBLE BYTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of bytes of incompressible packets received; that is, those that were
transmitted by the peer in uncompressed form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINCOMPRESSIBLE PACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Number of incompressible packets transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOMP RATIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Recent compression ratio for outgoing packets.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpppd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
