'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PRINTMGR 1M "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
printmgr \- Solaris Print Manager is a graphical user interface for managing
printers in a network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/admin/bin/printmgr\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Solaris Print Manager is a Java-based graphical user interface that enables you
to manage local and remote printer access. This tool can be used in the
following name service environments: LDAP, NIS, and files. You must be
logged in as superuser to use this tool.
.sp
.LP
Using Solaris Printer Manager is the preferred method for managing printer
access because Solaris Print Manager centralizes printer information when it is
used in a name service environment.
.sp
.LP
Adding printer information to a name service makes access to printers available
to all systems on the network and generally makes printer administration easier
because all the information about printers is centralized.
.sp
.LP
Solaris Print Manager may be run on a remote system with the display sent to
the local system. See the \fISystem Administration Guide: Solaris Printing\fR
for instructions on setting the \fBDISPLAY\fR environment variable.
.sp
.LP
Using Solaris Print Manager to perform printer-related tasks automatically
updates the appropriate printer databases. Solaris Print Manager also includes
a command-line console that displays the \fBlp\fR command line for the add,
modify, and delete printer operations. Errors and warnings may also be
displayed when Printer Manager operations are performed.
.sp
.LP
Help is available by clicking the Help button.
.SH USAGE
.LP
Solaris Print Manager enables you to do the following tasks:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSelect a Name Service\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Select a name service for retrieving or changing printer information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBAdd Access to a Printer\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Add printer access on a printer client using Solaris Print Manager.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBAdd an Attached Printer\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
After physically attaching the printer to a system, use Solaris Print Manager
to install a local printer and make it available for printing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBAdd a Network Printer\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
After physically attaching the printer to a system, use Solaris Print Manager
to install a local printer and make it available for printing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBModify Printer Properties\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
After adding access to a printer or adding an attached or network printer, you
can modify certain printer attributes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDelete a Printer\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Delete access to a printer from the print client or delete a printer from the
print server or from the name service environment.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBldap\fR(1), \fBlpget\fR(1M), \fBlpset\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Solaris Printing\fR for information on LDAP
server replication.
.sp
.LP
Although users can use the LDAP command line utilities \fBldapadd\fR(1) and
\fBldapmodify\fR(1)to update printer entries in the directory, the preferred
method is to use \fBlpset\fR. Otherwise, if the \fBlpadd\fR and \fBlpmodify\fR
utilities are used, the administrator must ensure that the \fBprinter-name\fR
attribute value is unique within the \fBou=printers\fR container on the LDAP
server. If the value is not unique, the result of modifications done using
\fBlpset\fR or the Solaris Print Manager, \fBprintmgr\fR may be unpredictable.
