'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Peter Tribble.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PROJADD 1M "Jan 7, 2018"
.SH NAME
projadd \- administer a new project on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprojadd\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprojid\fR [\fB-o\fR]] [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR]
     [\fB-U\fR \fIuser\fR[,\fIuser\fR]...] [\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR[,\fIgroup\fR]...]
     [\fB-K\fR \fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR[,\fIvalue\fR]...]]... \fIproject\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBprojadd\fR adds a new project entry to the \fB/etc/project\fR file. If the
files backend is being used for the project database, the new project is
available for use immediately upon the completion of the \fBprojadd\fR command.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Add a project comment. Comments are stored in the project's entry in the
\fB/etc/project\fR file. Generally, comments contain a short description of the
project and are used as the field for the project's full name.
.sp
Specify \fIcomment\fR as a text string. \fIcomment\fR cannot contain a colon
(\fB:\fR) or NEWLINE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify the project file to modify. If no \fIfilename\fR is specified, the
system project file, \fB/etc/project\fR, is modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR[,\fIgroup\fR]...\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify a group list for the project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-K\fR \fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR[,\fIvalue\fR]...]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify an attribute list for the project. Multiple \fB-K\fR options can be
specified to set values on multiple keys, such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-K \fIkey1\fR=\fIvalue1\fR -K "\fIkey2\fR=(\fIvalue2a\fR),(\fIvalue2b\fR)"
.fi
.in -2

Resource control attributes use parentheses to specify values for a key.
Because many user shells interpret parentheses as special characters, it is
best to enclose an argument to \fB-K\fR that contains parentheses with double
quotes, as shown above and in EXAMPLES, below. See \fBresource_controls\fR(5)
for a description of the resource controls you can specify for a project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Syntax check. Check the format of the existing system project file and
modifications only. The contents of the existing project file, such as user
names, group names, and resources that are specified in the project attributes
are not checked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
This option allows the project ID specified by the \fB-p\fR option to be
non-unique within the project file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprojid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Set the project \fBID\fR of the new project.
.sp
Specify \fIprojid\fR as a non-negative decimal integer below \fBUID_MAX\fR as
defined in \fBlimits.h\fR. \fIprojid\fR defaults to the next available unique
number above the highest number currently assigned. For example, if
\fIprojid\fRs \fB100\fR, \fB105\fR, and \fB200\fR are assigned, the next
default \fIprojid\fR is \fB201\fR. \fIprojid\fRs between \fB0\fR-\fB99\fR are
reserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR \fIuser\fR[,\fIuser\fR]...\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify a user list for the project.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIproject\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The name of the project to create. The \fIproject\fR operand is a string
consisting of characters from the set of alphabetic characters, numeric
characters, underline (_), and hyphen (-). The period ('.') is reserved for
projects with special meaning to the operating system. The first character of
the project name must be a letter. An error message is displayed if these
restrictions are not met.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Adding a Project
.sp
.LP
The following command creates the project \fBsalesaudit\fR and sets the
resource controls specified as arguments to the \fB-K\fR option.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
projadd -p 111 -G sales,finance -c "Auditing Project" \e
   -K "rcap.max-rss=10GB" \e
   -K "process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)" \e
   -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This command would produce the following entry in \fB/etc/project\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
salesaudit:111:Auditing Project::sales,finance: \e
process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny); \e
rcap.max-rss=10737418240;task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note that the preceding would appear as one line in \fB/etc/project\fR.

.sp
.LP
Comparing the \fBprojadd\fR command and resulting output in \fB/etc/project\fR,
note the effect of the scaling factor in the resource cap
(\fBrcap.max-rss=10GB\fR) and the resource control
(\fBprocess.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)\fR). Modifiers, such as B, KB, and
MB, and scaling factors are specified in \fBresource_controls\fR(5).

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The command syntax was invalid. A usage message for \fBprojadd\fR is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An invalid argument was provided to an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The \fIprojid\fR given with the \fB-p\fR option is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The project files contain an error. See \fBproject\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The project to be added, group, user, or resource does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB9\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The project is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB10\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Cannot update the \fB/etc/project\fR file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/project\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
System project file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Invocation is evolving. Human readable output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBprojects\fR(1), \fBgroupadd\fR(1M), \fBgroupdel\fR(1M), \fBgroupmod\fR(1M),
\fBgrpck\fR(1M), \fBprojdel\fR(1M), \fBprojmod\fR(1M), \fBuseradd\fR(1M),
\fBuserdel\fR(1M), \fBusermod\fR(1M), \fBproject\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBresource_controls\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
In case of an error, \fBprojadd\fR prints an error message and exits with a
non-zero status.
.sp
.LP
\fBprojadd\fR adds a project definition only on the local system. If a network
name service is being used to supplement the local
\fB/etc/project\fR file with additional entries, \fBprojadd\fR cannot change
information supplied by the network name service.
