'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PROJMOD 1M "Feb 22, 2007"
.SH NAME
projmod \- modify a project's information on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBprojmod\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-A\fR|\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR | -]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBprojmod\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-A\fR|\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR | -] [\fB-p\fR \fIprojid\fR [\fB-o\fR]]
     [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] [\fB-a\fR|\fB-s\fR|\fB-r\fR] [\fB-U\fR \fIuser\fR [,\fIuser\fR]... ]
     [\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR [,\fIgroup\fR]... ]
     [ [\fB-K\fR \fIname\fR [=\fIvalue\fR [,\fIvalue\fR]...]...]]
     [\fB-l\fR \fInew_projectname\fR] \fIproject\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBprojmod\fR utility modifies a project's definition on the system.
\fBprojmod\fR changes the definition of the specified project and makes the
appropriate project-related system file and file system changes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Apply the project's resource controls, as defined in the system's project
database, to the project if it is active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify that the users, groups, attributes, or attribute values specified by
the \fB-U\fR, \fB-G\fR or \fB-K\fR options should be added to the project,
rather than replacing the existing member or attribute list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify \fIcomment\fR as a text string. Generally, \fIcomment\fR contains a
short description of the project. This information is stored in the project's
\fB/etc/project\fR entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR | -\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify the project file to modify or validate or specify input from stdin for
validation. As noted under OPERANDS, if you do not specify a project in a
\fBprojmod\fR command line, \fBprojmod\fR validates the argument to \fB-f\fR.
If you do not use this option, the system project file, \fB/etc/project\fR, is
modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR [,\fIgroup\fR...]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify a replacement list of member groups of the project. When used in
conjunction with the \fB-a\fR or \fB-r\fR options, this option specifies a list
of groups to be added or removed from the project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-K\fR \fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR[,\fIvalue\fR...]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify a replacement list of project attributes for the project. When used in
conjunction with the \fB-a\fR, \fB-r\fR, or \fB-s\fR options, this option
specifies a list of attribute values to be added, removed, or replaced in the
project. Attributes must be delimited by semicolons (\fB;\fR). Multiple
\fB-K\fR options can be specified to set, add, remove, or substitute values on
multiple keys, such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-K \fIkey1\fR=\fIvalue1\fR -K "\fIkey2\fR=(\fIvalue2a\fR),(\fIvalue2b\fR)"
.fi
.in -2

Resource control attributes use parentheses to specify values for a key.
Because many user shells interpret parentheses as special characters, it is
best to enclose an argument to \fB-K\fR that contains parentheses with double
quotes, as shown above and in EXAMPLES, below. See \fBresource_controls\fR(5)
for a description of the resource controls you can specify for a project.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fInew_projectname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify the new project name for the project. The \fInew_projectname\fR
argument is a string consisting of characters from the set of alphabetic
characters, numeric characters, period (\fB\&.\fR), underline (\fB_\fR), and
hyphen (\fB-\fR). The first character should be alphabetic. An error message is
written if these restrictions are not met. The project name must also be unique
within the project file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Syntax check. Check the format of the existing system project file and
modifications only. The contents of the existing project file, such as user
names, group names, and resources that are specified in the project attributes
are not checked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
This option allows the project ID specified by the \fB-p\fR option to be
non-unique within the project file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIprojid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify a new project \fBID\fR for the project. It must be a non-negative
decimal integer less than \fBMAXUID\fR as defined in \fBparam.h\fR. This value
must be unique within the project file if the \fB-o\fR option is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify that the users, groups, attributes, or attribute values specified by
the \fB-U\fR, \fB-G\fR or \fB-K\fR options should be removed from the project,
rather than replacing the existing member or attribute list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify that the list of attributes specified by the \fB-K\fR option should
have their values replaced. If the attributes do not exist, they are added as
if the a option was used. This option has no effect the \fB-U\fR or \fB-G\fR
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR \fIuser\fR [,\fIuser\fR...]\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Specify a replacement list of member users of the project. When used in
conjunction with the \fB-a\fR or \fB-r\fR options, this option specifies a list
of users to be added or removed from the project.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIproject\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
An existing project name to be modified or displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fI(none)\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
If no operand is given, the project file is validated without modifying any
project.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fB-K\fR Option for Addition of an Attribute Value
.sp
.LP
Consider the following \fBproject\fR(4) entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
salesaudit:111:Auditing Project::sales,finance: \e
  process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny); \e
  task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The preceding would appear as one line in \fB/etc/project\fR. For this and the
following examples, the focus is on the attributes field in the \fBproject\fR
entry. That is, the last field, the field following the last semicolon.

.sp
.LP
The attributes field for the project \fBsalesaudit\fR lists the following
resource control:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following \fBprojmod\fR command adds an action clause to the preceding
entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -a -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&...with the resulting attributes field in the entry for \fBsalesaudit\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny),(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUsing the \fB-K\fR Option for the Substitution of an Attribute
Value
.sp
.LP
Assume an attributes field in a \fBproject\fR(4) entry for the project
\fBsalesaudit\fR that lists the following resource control:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny),(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following \fBprojmod\fR command substitutes the action clause specified in
the command for the action clauses in the preceding entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -s -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,500,signal=SIGSTOP)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&...with the resulting attributes field in the entry for \fBsalesaudit\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,500,signal=SIGSTOP)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing the \fB-K\fR Option for Removal of an Attribute Value
.sp
.LP
Assume an attributes field in a \fBproject\fR(4) entry for a project
\fBsalesaudit\fR that lists the following resource control:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny),(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following \fBprojmod\fR command removes the first action clause from the
preceding entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -r -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&...with the resulting attributes field in the entry for \fBsalesaudit\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,1000,signal=KILL)
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRSpecifying Multiple Attribute Values
.sp
.LP
Suppose you want to achieve the following resource controls for the project
\fBsalesaudit\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)
process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following \fBprojmod\fR command adds these resource controls for
\fBsalesaudit\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -a -K "task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny)" \e
-K "process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)" salesaudit
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&...with the resulting attributes field in the entry for \fBsalesaudit\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
task.max-lwps=(priv,100,deny);process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In this example, note the effect of the use of the modifier and scaling factor
for the resource control \fBprocess.max-file-size\fR. The specification in
\fBprojmod\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
"process.max-file-size=(priv,50MB,deny)"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\&...becomes, in \fB/etc/project\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
process.max-file-size=(priv,52428800,deny)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
That is, \fB50MB\fR is expanded to \fB52428800\fR. The modifiers, such as MB,
and scaling factors you can use for resource controls are specified in
\fBresource_controls\fR(5).

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRBinding a Pool to a Project
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the \fBproject.pool\fR attribute for the project
\fBsales\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# projmod -a -K project.pool=salespool sales
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fREvaluating Input from \fBstdin\fR
.sp
.LP
The following command uses the \fB-f\fR option without a project name operand
to evaluate the contents of an NIS projects map.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ypcat project | projmod -f -
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
In case of an error, \fBprojmod\fR prints an error message and exits with one
of the following values:
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The command syntax was invalid. A usage message for \fBprojmod\fR is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An invalid argument was provided to an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The \fIprojid\fR given with the \fB-p\fR option is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The project files contain an error. See \fBproject\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The project to be modified, group, user, or resource does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB9\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The project is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB10\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Cannot update the \fB/etc/project\fR file.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/group\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
System file containing group definitions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/project\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
System project file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
System password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/shadow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
System file containing users' encrypted passwords and related information
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Invocation is evolving. Human readable output is unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgroupadd\fR(1M), \fBgroupdel\fR(1M), \fBgroupmod\fR(1M), \fBprojadd\fR(1M),
\fBprojdel\fR(1M), \fBuseradd\fR(1M), \fBuserdel\fR(1M), \fBusermod\fR(1M),
\fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBproject\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBresource_controls\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBprojmod\fR utility modifies project definitions only in the local
\fB/etc/project\fR file. If a network name service such as \fBNIS\fR or
\fBLDAP\fR is being used to supplement the local files with additional entries,
\fBprojmod\fR cannot change information supplied by the network name service.
However \fBprojmod\fR verifies the uniqueness of project name and project
\fBID\fR against the external name service.
