'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PSRADM 1M "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
psradm \- change processor operational status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpsradm\fR \fB-f\fR | \fB-i\fR | \fB-n\fR | \fB-s\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-F\fR] \fIprocessor_id\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpsradm\fR \fB-a\fR \fB-f\fR | \fB-i\fR | \fB-n\fR | \fB-s\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-F\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpsradm\fR utility changes the operational status of processors. The
legal states for the processor are \fBon-line\fR, \fBoff-line\fR, \fBspare\fR,
\fBfaulted\fR, and \fBno-intr\fR.
.sp
.LP
An \fBon-line\fR processor processes \fBLWPs\fR (lightweight processes) and can
be interrupted by I/O devices in the system.
.sp
.LP
An \fBoff-line\fR processor does not process any \fBLWPs.\fR Usually, an
\fBoff-line\fR processor is not interruptible by I/O devices in the system. On
some processors or under certain conditions, it might not be possible to
disable interrupts for an \fBoff-line\fR processor. Thus, the actual effect of
being \fBoff-line\fR might vary from machine to machine.
.sp
.LP
A spare processor does not process any LWPs. A spare processor can be brought
\fBon-line\fR, \fBoff-line\fR or to \fBno-intr\fR by a privileged user of the
system or by the kernel in response to changes in the system state.
.sp
.LP
A faulted processor is identified by the kernel, which monitors the behavior of
processors over time. A privileged user can set the state of a faulted
processor to be \fBon-line\fR, \fBoff-line\fR, \fBspare\fR or \fBno-intr\fR,
but must use the force option to do so.
.sp
.LP
A \fBno-intr\fR processor processes \fBLWPs\fR but is not interruptible by I/O
devices.
.sp
.LP
A processor can not be taken \fBoff-line\fR or made \fBspare\fR if there are
LWPs that are bound to the processor unless the additional \fB-F\fR option is
used. The \fB-F\fR option removes processor bindings of such LWPs before
changing the processor's operational status. On some architectures, it might
not be possible to take certain processors \fBoff-line\fR or \fBspare\fR if,
for example, the system depends on some resource provided by the processor.
.sp
.LP
At least one processor in the system must be able to process \fBLWPs.\fR At
least one processor must also be able to be interrupted. Since an
\fBoff-line\fR or \fBspare\fR processor can be interruptible, it is possible to
have an operational system with one processor \fBno-intr\fR and all other
processors \fBoff-line\fR or \fBspare\fR but with one or more accepting
interrupts.
.sp
.LP
If any of the specified processors are powered off, \fBpsradm\fR might power on
one or more processors.
.sp
.LP
Only users with the \fBPRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG\fR privilege can use the
\fBpsradm\fR utility.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Perform the action on all processors, or as many as possible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Take the specified processors \fBoff-line\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Force the transition to the additional specified state. Required if one or more
of the specified processors was in the faulted state. Set the specified
processors to faulted, if no other transition option was specified. Forced
transitions can only be made to \fBfaulted\fR, \fBspare\fR, or \fBoff-line\fR
states. Administrators are encouraged to use the \fB-Q\fR option for
\fBpbind\fR(1M) to find out which threads will be affected by forced a
processor state transition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Set the specified processors \fBno-intr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Bring the specified processors \fBon-line\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Make the specified processors spare.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Output a message giving the results of each attempted operation.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprocessor_id\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The processor \fBID\fR of the processor to be set \fBon-line\fR or
\fBoff-line\fR, \fBspare\fR, or \fBno-intr\fR.
.sp
Specify \fIprocessor_id\fR as an individual processor number (for example,
\fB3\fR), multiple processor numbers separated by spaces (for example, \fB1 2
3\fR), or a range of processor numbers (for example, \fB1-4\fR). It is also
possible to combine ranges and (individual or multiple) \fIprocessor_id\fRs
(for example, \fB1-3 5 7-8 9\fR).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSetting Processors to \fBoff-line\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example sets processors 2 and 3 \fBoff-line\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% psradm \fB-f\fR 2 3
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting Processors to no-intr
.sp
.LP
The following example sets processors 1 and 2 \fBno-intr\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% psradm \fB-i\fR 1 2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRSetting Processors to \fBspare\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example sets processors 1 and 2 spare, even if either of the
processors was in the faulted state:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% psradm -F -s 1 2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRSetting All Processors \fBon-line\fR
.sp
.in +2
.nf
% psradm \fB-a\fR \fB-n\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRForcing Processors to \fBoff-line\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example sets processors 1 and 2 offline, and revokes the
processor bindings from the processes bound to them:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% psradm \fB-F\fR \fB-f\fR 1 2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/wtmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Records logging processor status changes
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpbind\fR(1M), \fBpsrinfo\fR(1M), \fBpsrset\fR(1M), \fBp_online\fR(2),
\fBprocessor_bind\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpsradm: processor 4: Invalid argument\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified processor does not exist in the configuration.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpsradm: processor 3: Device busy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified processor could not be taken \fBoff-line\fR because it either has
LWPs bound to it, is the last \fBon-line\fR processor in the system, or is
needed by the system because it provides some essential service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpsradm: processor 3: Device busy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified processor could not be set \fBno-intr\fR because it is the last
interruptible processor in the system, or it is the only processor in the
system that can service interrupts needed by the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpsradm: processor 3: Device busy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified processor is powered off, and it cannot be powered on because
some platform-specific resource is unavailable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpsradm: processor 0: Not owner\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The user does not have permission to change processor status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpsradm: processor 2: Operation not supported\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified processor is powered off, and the platform does not support power
on of individual processors.
.RE

