'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T , Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PWCK 1M "Aug 27, 2008"
.SH NAME
pwck, grpck \- password/group file checkers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/pwck\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/grpck\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpwck\fR scans the password file and notes any inconsistencies. The checks
include validation of the number of fields, login name, user ID, group ID, and
whether the login directory and the program-to-use-as-shell exist.  The default
password file is \fB/etc/passwd\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBgrpck\fR  verifies all entries in the \fBgroup\fR file. This verification
includes a check of the number of fields, group name, group ID, whether any
login names belong to more than \fBNGROUPS_MAX\fR groups, and that all login
names appear in the password file. \fBgrpck\fR also issues a warning if it
finds an entry (a single line) in the \fBgroup\fR file longer than  2047
characters.  Such an entry causes group maintenance commands, such as
\fBgroupdel\fR(1M) and \fBgroupmod\fR(1M), to fail.
.sp
.LP
The default group file is \fB/etc/group\fR.
.sp
.LP
All messages regarding inconsistent entries are placed on the \fBstderr\fR
stream.
.SH FILES
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/etc/group\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB/etc/passwd\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgroupdel\fR(1M), \fBgroupmod\fR(1M), \fBgetpwent\fR(3C), \fBgroup\fR(4),
\fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
Group entries in \fB/etc/group\fR with no login names are flagged.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGroup file '\fR\fIfilename\fR\fB\&' is empty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fB/etc/passwd\fR or \fB/etc/group\fR file is an empty file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcannot open file\fR \fIfilename\fR\fB: No such file or directory\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fB/etc/passwd\fR or \fB/etc/group\fR file does not exist.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If no filename argument is given,  \fBgrpck\fR checks the local group file,
\fB/etc/group\fR, and also makes sure that all login names encountered in the
checked group file are known to the system  \fBgetpwent\fR(3C) routine.  This
means that the login names may be supplied by a network name service.
