'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PWCONV 1M "Mar 9, 1993"
.SH NAME
pwconv \- installs and updates /etc/shadow with information from /etc/passwd
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpwconv\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpwconv\fR command creates and updates \fB/etc/shadow\fR with information
from \fB/etc/passwd\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBpwconv\fR relies on a special value of 'x' in the password field of
\fB/etc/passwd.\fR This value of 'x' indicates that the password for the user
is already in \fB/etc/shadow\fR and should not be modified.
.sp
.LP
If the \fB/etc/shadow\fR file does not exist, this command will create
\fB/etc/shadow\fR with information from \fB/etc/passwd\fR. The command
populates \fB/etc/shadow\fR with the user's login name, password, and password
aging information. If password aging information does not exist in
\fB/etc/passwd\fR for a given user, none will be added to  \fB/etc/shadow\fR.
However, the last changed information will always be updated.
.sp
.LP
If the  \fB/etc/shadow\fR file does exist, the following tasks will be
performed:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Entries that are in the  \fB/etc/passwd\fR file and not in the
\fB/etc/shadow\fR file will be added to the \fB/etc/shadow\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Entries that are in the  \fB/etc/shadow\fR file and not in the
\fB/etc/passwd\fR file will be removed from \fB/etc/shadow\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Password attributes (for example, password and aging information)  that exist
in an \fB/etc/passwd\fR entry will be moved to the corresponding entry in
\fB/etc/shadow\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpwconv\fR command can only be used by the super-user.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/opasswd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/oshadow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/shadow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBpassmgmt\fR(1M), \fBusermod\fR(1M), \fBpasswd\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
\fBpwconv\fR exits with one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBSUCCESS.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Permission denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Invalid command syntax.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Unexpected failure.  Conversion not done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Unexpected failure.  Password file(s) missing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Password file(s) busy.  Try again later.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Bad entry in \fB/etc/shadow\fR file.
.RE

