'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RCTLADM 1M "Jul 2, 2007"
.SH NAME
rctladm \- display or modify global state of system resource controls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrctladm\fR [\fB-lu\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIaction\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIaction\fR] [\fIname\fR...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrctladm\fR command allows the examination and modification of active
resource controls on the running system. An instance of a resource control is
referred to as an \fBrctl\fR. See \fBsetrctl\fR(2) for a description of an
\fBrctl\fR; see \fBresource_controls\fR(5) for a list of the \fBrctl\fRs
supported in the current release of the Solaris operating system. Logging of
\fBrctl\fR violations can be activated or deactivated system-wide and active
\fBrctl\fRs (and their state) can be listed.
.sp
.LP
An \fBrctladm\fR command without options is the equivalent of an \fBrctladm\fR
with the \fB-l\fR option. See the description of \fB-l\fR below.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIaction\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIaction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable (\fB-d\fR) or enable (\fB-e\fR) the global action on the specified
\fBrctl\fRs. If no \fBrctl\fR is specified, no action is taken and an error
status is returned. You can use the special token \fBall\fR with the disable
option to deactivate all global actions on a resource control.
.sp
You can set the \fBsyslog\fR action to a specific degree by assigning a
severity level. To do this, specify \fBsyslog=\fIlevel\fR\fR, where \fIlevel\fR
is one of the string tokens given as valid severity levels in \fBsyslog\fR(3C).
You can omit the common \fBLOG_\fR prefix on the severity level. Note that not
all \fBrctl\fRs support the \fBsyslog\fR action. See
\fBresource_controls\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List information about \fBrctl\fRs. The name, global event actions and
statuses, and global flags are displayed. If one or more name operands are
specified, only those \fBrctl\fRs matching the names are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configure resource controls based on the contents of \fB/etc/rctladm.conf\fR.
Any name operands are ignored.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the \fBrctl\fR to operate on. Multiple \fBrctl\fR names can be
specified. If no names are specified, and the list action has been specified,
then all \fBrctl\fRs are listed. If the enable or disable action is specified,
one or more \fBrctl\fR names must be specified.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRActivating System Logging for Specific Violations
.sp
.LP
The following command activates system logging of all violations of
\fBtask.max-lwps\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# rctladm -e syslog task.max-lwps
#
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRExamining the Current Status of a Specific Resource
.sp
.LP
The following command examines the current status of the \fBtask.max-lwps\fR
resource.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ rctladm -l task.max-lwps
task.max-lwps               syslog=DEBUG
$
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A fatal error occurred. A message is written to standard error to indicate each
resource control for which the operation failed. The operation was successful
for any other resource controls specified as operands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rctladm.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Each time \fBrctladm\fR is executed, it updates the contents of
\fBrctladm.conf\fR with the current configuration.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsetrctl\fR(2), \fBgetrctl\fR(2), \fBprctl\fR(1),
\fBrctlblk_get_global_flags\fR(3C), \fBrctlblk_get_global_action\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBresource_controls\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
By default, there is no global logging of \fBrctl\fR violations.
