'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RDATE 1M "Mar 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
rdate \- set system date from a remote host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrdate\fR \fIhostname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrdate\fR sets the local date and time from the \fIhostname\fR given as an
argument. You must have the authorization \fBsolaris.system.date\fR on the
local system. Typically, \fBrdate\fR is used in a startup script.
.sp
.LP
\fBrdate\fR requests are responded to by the "time" service on the specified
host. To enable the "time" service, use the following commands:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svcadm enable time:stream
svcadm enable time:dgram
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBrdate\fR command is IPv6-enabled. See \fBip6\fR(7P).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBinetd.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBip6\fR(7P)
