'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University
.\" of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement
.\"  specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.  Copyright (c) 1995
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" from UCB 4.3
.TH RMT 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
rmt \- remote magtape protocol module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rmt\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBrmt\fR is a program used by the remote dump and restore programs in
manipulating a magnetic tape drive through an interprocess communication
connection. \fBrmt\fR is normally started up with an \fBrexec\fR(3SOCKET) or
\fBrcmd\fR(3SOCKET) call.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrmt\fR program accepts requests that are specific to the manipulation of
magnetic tapes, performs the commands, then responds with a status indication.
All responses are in \fBASCII\fR and in one of two forms. Successful commands
have responses of:
.sp
.in +2
.nf

.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA\fR\fInumber\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
where \fInumber\fR is an \fBASCII\fR representation of a decimal number.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Unsuccessful commands are responded to with:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBE\fR\fIerror-number\fR\fB\en\fR\fIerror-message\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
where \fIerror-number\fR is one of the possible error numbers described in
\fBIntro\fR(3), and \fIerror-message\fR is the corresponding error string as
printed from a call to \fBperror\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.LP
 The protocol consists of the following commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Return the status of the open device, as obtained with a \fBMTIOCGET\fR
\fBioctl\fR call.  If the operation was successful, an "ack" is sent with the
size of the status buffer, then the status buffer is sent (in binary).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBC\fR\fIdevice\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Close the currently open device. The \fIdevice\fR specified is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBI\fR\fIoperation\fR\fB\en\fR\fIcount\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Perform a \fBMTIOCOP\fR \fBioctl\fR(2) command using the specified parameters.
The parameters are interpreted as the \fBASCII\fR representations of the
decimal values to place in the \fImt_op\fR and \fImt_count\fR fields of the
structure used in the \fBioctl\fR call.   When the operation is successful the
return value is the \fIcount\fR parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL\fR\fIoffset\fR\fB\en\fR\fBwhence\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Perform an \fBlseek\fR(2) operation using the specified parameters. The
response value is returned from the \fBlseek\fR call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBO\fR\fIdevice\fR\fB\en\fR\fImode\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Open the specified \fIdevice\fR using the indicated \fImode\fR. \fIdevice\fR is
a full pathname, and \fImode\fR is an \fBASCII\fR representation of a decimal
number suitable for passing to \fBopen\fR(9E). If a device is already open, it
is closed before a new open is performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBR\fR\fIcount\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Read \fIcount\fR bytes of data from the open device. \fBrmt\fR performs the
requested \fBread\fR(9E) and responds with \fBA\fR\fIcount-read\en\fR if the
read was successful; otherwise an error in  standard format is returned. If the
read was successful, the data read is sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBW\fR\fIcount\fR\fB\en\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Write data onto the open device. \fBrmt\fR reads \fIcount\fR bytes from the
connection, aborting if a premature \fBEOF\fR is encountered. The response
value is returned from the \fBwrite\fR(9E) call.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Any other command causes \fBrmt\fR to exit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBufsdump\fR(1M), \fBufsrestore\fR(1M), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBioctl\fR(2),
\fBlseek\fR(2), \fBperror \fR(3C), \fBrcmd\fR(3SOCKET), \fBrexec\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmtio\fR(7I), \fBopen\fR(9E), \fBread\fR(9E),
\fBwrite\fR(9E)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
All responses are of the form described above.
.SH BUGS
.LP
Do not use this for a remote file access protocol.
