'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RMVOLMGR 1M "Nov 28, 2006"
.SH NAME
rmvolmgr \- HAL-aware removable volume manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rmvolmgr\fR [\fB-chns\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrmvolmgr\fR command is a volume manager that can automatically mount and
unmount removable media and hot-pluggable storage. The default mount point is
\fB/media\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBrmvolmgr\fR is one of a number of Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL)-aware
tools that are shipped with the Solaris operating system. See \fBhald\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
Multiple instances of \fBrmvolmgr\fR can be run simultaneously. A system
instance of \fBrmvolmgr\fR runs by default as a service management facility
(SMF) service (see \fBsmf\fR(5)). Its fault management resource identifier
(FMRI) is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/filesystem/rmvolmgr
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
You can run your own instance of \fBrmvolmgr\fR by adding it to the
\fB\&.xinitrc\fR file or a similar session startup script. In such a case, the
\fBsystem\fR \fBrmvolmgr\fR instance will not manage volumes that belong to
you, the owner of the startup script. For example, a user logged on to the
workstation console (\fB/dev/console\fR) who invokes his own instance of
\fBrmvolmgr\fR will own locally connected devices, such as CD-ROM drives and
devices connected to the local USB or FireWire ports.
.sp
.LP
In addition to mounting volumes under \fB/media\fR, \fBrmvolmgr\fR also creates
legacy symbolic links under \fB/cdrom\fR, \fB/floppy\fR, and \fB/rmdisk\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBrmvolmgr\fR also provides backwards compatibility with CDE removable media
interfaces by maintaining notification files under \fB/tmp/.removable\fR. This
functionality can be disabled by using the \fB-c\fR option.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-c\fR and \fB-n\fR options can also be specified as SMF properties. See
"Examples."
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Disable CDE compatibility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display help information and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Do not create legacy mountpoint symbolic links.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Invoke in system instance mode.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing SMF Properties to Set Options
.sp
.LP
The following \fBsvccfg\fR(1M) command and subcommands use SMF properties to
set the \fB-c\fR and \fB-n\fR options.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBsvccfg\fR
svc:> \fBselect rmvolmgr\fR
svc:/system/filesystem/rmvolmgr> \fBlistprop rmvolmgr/*\fR
rmvolmgr/legacy_mountpoints     boolean  true
rmvolmgr/cde_compatible         boolean  true
svc:/system/filesystem/rmvolmgr> \fBsetprop \e
  rmvolmgr/legacy_mountpoints=false\fR
svc:/system/filesystem/rmvolmgr> \fBsetprop rmvolmgr/cde_compatible=false\fR
svc:/system/filesystem/rmvolmgr> \fBexit\fR
example#
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Volatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhald\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBhal\fR(5),
\fBsmf\fR(5)
