'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ROOT_ARCHIVE 1M "Sep 9, 2009"
.SH NAME
root_archive \- manage bootable miniroot archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive\fR pack \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive\fR unpack \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive\fR packmedia \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/boot/solaris/bin/root_archive\fR unpackmedia \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBroot_archive\fR utility is used to manipulate boot archives and the
bootable miniroot(s) in a Solaris install image. The utility can pack and
unpack boot archives and image miniroots. Both \fBufs\fR and \fBhsfs\fR
(\fBiso9660\fR) format archives can be unpacked, although only \fBufs\fR format
is generated when packing.
.sp
.LP
For normal, boot-related system administration, \fBbootadm\fR(1M) is
recommended. \fBroot_archive\fR's primary purpose is to enable OEMs to add or
update a driver or other component on the Solaris install media.
.sp
.LP
A miniroot and a boot archive is closely associated with the release it is
intended to boot. To ensure that the tools and system services used to
construct the miniroot match, miniroot manipulation must be performed only on a
system running the same release for which the miniroot is intended to install.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.sp
.LP
The \fBroot_archive\fR command has the following subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpack\fR \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Pack the contents of the root directory into the boot archive \fIarchive\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunpack\fR \fIarchive\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unpack the contents of the boot archive named \fIarchive\fR to the directory
named \fIroot\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpackmedia\fR \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Create and pack the miniroot(s) in \fIsolaris_image\fR from the contents of the
directory named \fIroot\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunpackmedia\fR \fIsolaris_image\fR \fIroot\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unpack the contents of the miniroot(s) in \fIsolaris_image\fR to the directory
named \fIroot\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The contents of a miniroot are constructed to need the requirements of the
release. When unpacking a miniroot, all the contents of the miniroot(s) are
unpacked. When packing a miniroot, the source directory must contain all the
necessary components with which to construct a miniroot. In general, this can
only be achieved by first unpacking an existing miniroot.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUnpacking the Miniroots in a Solaris x86 Install Image
.sp
.LP
The following command unpacks the miniroots in a Solaris image to the root
directory in \fB/export/release/latest\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBroot_archive unpackmedia \e\fR
\fB/export/nv/solarisdvd.nvx_dvd/latest /export/release/latest/root\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In the preceding, \fB/export/nv/solarisdvd.nvx_dvd/latest\fR represents a path
to a Solaris x86 install image and \fB/export/release/latest/root\fR is a
directory that will be purged or created, as necessary.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRPacking the Miniroots in a Solaris x86 Install Image
.sp
.LP
The following command creates and packs the miniroot(s) in a Solaris image from
the contents of the directory \fB/export/release/latest/root\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBroot_archive packmedia \e\fR
\fB/export/nv/solarisdvd.nvx_dvd/latest /export/release/latest/root\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The command completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The command exited due to an error.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR(1), \fBbootadm\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBlofi\fR(7D)
