'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ROUTE 1M "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
route \- manually manipulate the routing tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBroute\fR [\fB-fnvq\fR] \fIsub-command\fR [ [\fImodifiers\fR] \fIargs\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBroute\fR [\fB-fnvq\fR] [\fB-p\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR]] add | delete [\fImodifiers\fR] \fIdestination\fR \fIgateway\fR
     [\fIargs\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBroute\fR [\fB-fnvq\fR] change | get [\fImodifiers\fR] \fIdestination\fR
     [\fIgateway\fR [\fIargs\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBroute\fR [\fB-fn\fR] monitor [\fImodifiers\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBroute\fR [\fB-fnvq\fR] flush [\fImodifiers\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBroute\fR \fB-p\fR [\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR] show
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBroute\fR manually manipulates the network routing tables. These tables are
normally maintained by the system routing daemon, such as \fBin.routed\fR(1M)
and \fBin.ripngd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
\fBroute\fR supports a limited number of general options, but a rich command
language. Users can specify an arbitrary request that can be delivered by means
of the programmatic interface discussed in \fBroute\fR(7P).
.sp
.LP
\fBroute\fR uses a routing socket and the new message types \fBRTM_ADD\fR,
\fBRTM_DELETE\fR, \fBRTM_GET\fR, and \fBRTM_CHANGE\fR. While only superusers
can modify routing tables, the \fBRTM_GET\fR operation is allowed for
non-privileged users.
.SH OPTIONS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Flush the routing tables of all gateway entries. If you use the \fB-f\fR option
in conjunction with any of the \fBroute\fR subcommands, \fBroute\fR flushes
the gateways before performing the subcommand. Specify the table to flush by
placing the \fBinet\fR or \fBinet6\fR modifier immediately after the \fB-f\fR
option. If unspecified, flushing IPv4 (\fBinet\fR) routes is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prevent attempts to print host and network names symbolically when reporting
actions. This option is useful when name servers are unavailable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Make changes to the network route tables persistent across system restarts. The
operation is applied to the network routing tables first and, if successful, is
then applied to the list of saved routes used at system startup. In determining
whether an operation was successful, a failure to add a route that already
exists or to delete a route that is not in the routing table is ignored.
Particular care should be taken when using host or network names in persistent
routes, as network-based name resolution services are not available at the time
routes are added at startup.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Suppress all output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIroot-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify an alternate root directory where \fBroute\fR applies changes. This
option is ignored unless used in conjunction with the \fB-p\fR option. When
\fB-R\fR is specified, route changes are applied only to the list of saved
routes to be used at startup, \fBnot\fR to the network routing tables. In
addition, certain checks, such as the existence of network interfaces used with
\fB-ifp\fR, are skipped. This can be useful from within JumpStart scripts,
where the root directory of the system being modified is in a location other
than \fB/\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Print additional details in verbose mode.
.RE

.SS "Subcommands"
.LP
The following subcommands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Add a route.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBchange\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Change aspects of a route (such as its gateway).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdelete\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Delete a specific route.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflush\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Remove all gateway entries from the routing table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBget\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Look up and display the route for a destination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmonitor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Continuously report any changes to the routing information base, routing lookup
misses, or suspected network partitionings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshow\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Display the list of routes to be applied at system startup. Can be used only in
conjunction with the \fB-p\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBadd\fR and \fBdelete\fR subcommands have the following syntax:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
route [ -fnvq ] cmd \fIdestination\fR \fIgateway\fR [metric/netmask]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fIcmd\fR is \fBadd\fR or \fBdelete\fR, \fIdestination\fR is the
destination host or network, and \fIgateway\fR is the next-hop intermediary
through which packets should be routed. Modifiers described in \fBOPERANDS\fR
can be placed anywhere on the command line.
.sp
.LP
The \fBget\fR and \fBchange\fR subcommands have the following syntax:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
route [ -fnvq ] \fIcmd\fR \fIdestination\fR [\fIgateway\fR [metric/netmask]]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fIcmd\fR is \fBget\fR or \fBchange\fR, \fIdestination\fR is the
destination host or network, and \fIgateway\fR is the next-hop intermediary
through which packets should be routed. Modifiers described in \fBOPERANDS\fR
can be placed anywhere on the command line.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmonitor\fR subcommand has the following syntax:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
route monitor [ -inet | -inet6 ]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
\fBroute\fR executes its subcommands on routes to destinations by way of
gateways.
.SS "Destinations and Gateways"
.LP
By default, destination and gateway addresses are interpreted as IPv4
addresses. All symbolic names are tried first as a host name, using
\fBgetipnodebyname\fR(3SOCKET). If this lookup fails in the AF_INET case,
\fBgetnetbyname\fR(3SOCKET) interprets the name as that of a network.
.sp
.LP
Including an optional modifier on the command line before the address changes
how the \fBroute\fR subcommand interprets it.
.sp
.LP
The following modifiers are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-inet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Force the address to be interpreted as an IPv4 address, that is, under the
\fBAF_INET\fR address family.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-inet6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Force the address to be interpreted as an IPv6 address, that is, under the
\fBAF_INET6\fR address family.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For IPv4 addresses, routes to a particular host are by default distinguished
from those to a network by interpreting the Internet address specified as the
destination. If the destination has a \fBlocal address part\fR (that is, the
portion not covered by the netmask) of \fB0\fR, or if the destination is
resolved as the symbolic name of a network, then the route is assumed to be to
a network; otherwise, it is presumed to be a route to a host.
.sp
.LP
You can force this selection by using one of the following modifiers:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Force the destination to be interpreted as a host.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-net\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Force the destination to be interpreted as a network.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c
l l .
Destination	Destination Equivalent
_
\fB128.32\fR	\fB-host\fR \fB128.0.0.32\fR
\fB128.32.130\fR	\fB-host\fR \fB128.32.0.130\fR
\fB-net\fR \fB128.32\fR	\fB128.32.0.0\fR
\fB-net\fR \fB128.32.130\fR	\fB\fR\fB128.32.130.0\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
Two modifiers avoid confusion between addresses and keywords (for example.,
\fBhost\fR used as a symbolic host name). You can distinguish a
\fIdestination\fR by preceding it with the \fB-dst\fR modifier. You can
distinguish a gateway address by using the \fB-gateway\fR modifier. If the
destination is directly reachable by way of an interface requiring no
intermediary IP router to act as a gateway, this can be indicated by using the
\fB-interface\fR or \fB-iface\fR modifier.
.sp
.LP
In the following example, the route does not refer to an external gateway
(router), but rather to one of the machine's interfaces. Packets with IP
destination addresses matching the destination and mask on such a route are
sent out on the interface identified by the gateway address. For interfaces
using the ARP protocol, this type of route is used to specify that all matching
destinations are local to the physical link. That is, a host could be
configured to ARP for all addresses, without regard to the configured interface
netmask, by adding a default route using this command. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# route add default \fIhostname\fR -interface
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where gateway address \fIhostname\fR is the name or IP address associated with
the network interface over which all matching packets should be sent. On a host
with a single network interface, \fIhostname\fR is usually the same as the
\fInodename\fR returned by the \fBuname -n\fR command. See \fBuname\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
For backward compatibility with older systems, directly reachable routes can
also be specified by placing a \fB0\fR after the gateway address:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# route add default \fIhostname\fR 0
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This value was once a route metric, but this metric is no longer used. If the
value is specified as \fB0\fR, then the destination is directly reachable
(equivalent to specifying \fB-\fR\fBinterface\fR). If it is non-zero but cannot
be interpreted as a subnet mask, then a gateway is used (default).
.sp
.LP
With the \fBAF_INET\fR address family or an IPv4 address, a separate subnet
mask can be specified. This can be specified in one of the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
IP address following the gateway address . This is typically specified in
\fIdecimal dot\fR notation as for \fBinet_addr\fR(3SOCKET) rather than in
symbolic form.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
IP address following the \fB-netmask\fR qualifier.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Slash character and a decimal length appended to the destination address.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If a subnet mask is not specified, the mask used is the subnet mask of the
output interface selected by the gateway address, if the classful network of
the destination is the same as the classful network of the interface.
Otherwise, the classful network mask for the destination address is used.
.sp
.LP
Each of the following examples creates an IPv4 route to the destination
\fB192.0.2.32\fR subnet with a subnet mask of \fB255.255.255.224\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# route add 192.0.2.32/27 somegateway
example# route add 192.0.2.32 -netmask 255.255.255.224 somegateway
example# route add 192.0.2.32 somegateway 255.255.255.224
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For IPv6, only the slash format is accepted. The following example creates an
IPv6 route to the destination \fB33fe::\fR with a netmask of \fB16\fR one-bits
followed by 112 zero-bits.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# route add -inet6 3ffe::/16 somegateway
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In cases where the gateway does not uniquely identify the output interface (for
example, when several interfaces have the same address), you can use the
\fB-ifp\fR \fIifname\fR modifier to specify the interface by name.  For
example, \fB\fR\fB-ifp\fR \fBlo0\fR associates the route with the \fBlo0\fR
interface. If the named interface is an underlying interface in an IPMP (IP
multipathing) group, then requests to add a route will automatically be
translated to the corresponding IPMP IP interface, and requests to delete or
change a route on an underlying interface will fail.
.SS "Routing Flags"
.LP
Routes have associated flags that influence operation of the protocols when
sending to destinations matched by the routes. These flags can be set (and in
some cases cleared, indicated by \fB~\fR) by including the following modifiers
on the command line:
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
Modifier	Flag	Description
_
\fB-interface\fR	\fB~RTF_GATEWAY\fR	Destination is directly reachable
\fB-iface\fR	\fB~RTF_GATEWAY\fR	Alias for interface modifier
\fB-static\fR	\fBRTF_STATIC\fR	Manually added route
\fB-nostatic\fR	\fB~RTF_STATIC\fR	T{
Pretend route was added by kernel or routing daemon
T}
\fB-reject\fR	\fBRTF_REJECT\fR	Emit an ICMP unreachable when matched
\fB-blackhole\fR	\fBRTF_BLACKHOLE\fR	Silently discard packets duing updates
\fB-proto1\fR	\fBRTF_PROTO1\fR	Set protocol specific routing flag #1
\fB-proto2\fR	\fBRTF_PROTO2\fR	Set protocol specific routing flag #2
\fB-private\fR	\fBRTF_PRIVATE\fR	Do not advertise this route
\fB-multirt\fR	\fBRTF_MULTIRT\fR	Creates the specified redundant route
\fB-setsrc\fR	\fBRTF_SETSRC\fR	Assigns the default source address
.TE

.sp
.LP
The optional modifiers \fB-rtt\fR, \fB-rttvar\fR, \fB-sendpipe\fR,
\fB-recvpipe\fR, \fB-mtu\fR, \fB-hopcount\fR, \fB-expire\fR, and
\fB-ssthresh\fR provide initial values to quantities maintained in the routing
entry by transport level protocols, such as \fBTCP\fR. These can be
individually locked either by preceding each modifier to be locked by the
\fB-lock\fR meta-modifier, or by specifying that all ensuing metrics can be
locked by the \fB-lockrest\fR meta-modifier.
.sp
.LP
Some transport layer protocols can support only some of these metrics. The
following optional modifiers are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-expire\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Lifetime for the entry. This optional modifier is not currently supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-hopcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Maximum hop count. This optional modifier is not currently supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-mtu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Maximum MTU in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-recvpipe\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Receive pipe size in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-rtt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Round trip time in microseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-rttvar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Round trip time variance in microseconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-sendpipe\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Send pipe size in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-ssthresh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Send pipe size threshold in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-secattr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Security attributes of the route. This modifier is available only if the system
is configured with the Solaris Trusted Extensions feature.
.sp
The \fB-secattr\fR modifier has the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
min_sl=\fIval\fR,max_sl=\fIval\fR,doi=\fIval\fR,cipso
.fi
.in -2

or:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sl=VAL,doi=VAL,cipso
.fi
.in -2

In the first form, above, the \fIval\fR for \fBmin_sl\fR and \fBmax_sl\fR is a
sensitivity label in either hex or string form. The \fIval\fR for \fBdoi\fR is
a non-negative integer. The route will apply only for packets with the same
domain of interpretation as defined by the \fBdoi\fR value and within the
accreditation range defined by the \fBmin_sl\fR and \fBmax_sl\fR values. The
\fBcipso\fR keyword is optional and set by default. Valid \fBmin_sl\fR,
\fBmax_sl\fR and \fBdoi\fR keyword/value pairs are mandatory. Note that if
\fIval\fR contains a space, it must be protected by double quotes.
.sp
The second form, above, is equivalent to specifying the first form with the
same \fBVAL\fR for \fBmin_sl\fR and \fBmax_sl\fR. The second form should be
used for the \fBget\fR command, because \fBget\fR uses only a single
sensitivity label.
.RE

.SS "Compatibility"
.LP
The modifiers \fBhost\fR and \fBnet\fR are taken to be equivalent to
\fB-\fR\fBhost\fR and \fB-net\fR\fB\fR. To specify a symbolic address that
matches one of these names, use the \fBdst\fR or \fBgateway\fR keyword to
distinguish it. For example: \fB\fR\fB-dst\fR \fBhost\fR
.sp
.LP
The following two flags are also accepted for compatibility with older systems,
but have no effect.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c
l l .
Modifier	Flag
_
\fB-cloning\fR	RTF_CLONING
\fB-xresolve\fR	RTF_XRESOLVE
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fB\fR\fB-ifa\fR \fBhostname\fR modifier is also accepted, but has no
effect.
.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/defaultrouter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
List of default routers
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/hosts\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
List of host names and net addresses
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/networks\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
List of network names and addresses
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBuname\fR(1), \fBin.ripngd\fR(1M), \fBin.routed\fR(1M), \fBnetstat\fR(1M),
\fBrouted\fR(1M), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBgetipnodebyname\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBgetnetbyname\fR(3SOCKET), \fBinet_addr\fR(3SOCKET), \fBdefaultrouter\fR(4),
\fBhosts\fR(4), \fBnetworks\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBARP\fR(7P),
\fBip\fR(7P), \fBroute\fR(7P), \fBrouting\fR(7P)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadd\fR [ \fBhost\fR\||\ \fBnetwork\|]\fR \fIdestination\fR:\fIgateway\fR
\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified route is being added to the tables. The values printed are from
the routing table entry supplied in the \fBioctl\fR(2) call. If the gateway
address used was not the primary address of the gateway (the first one returned
by \fBgetipnodebyname\fR(3SOCKET)) the gateway address is printed numerically
as well as symbolically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdelete\fR [ \fBhost\fR\||\ \fBnetwork\fR\|]
\fIdestination\fR:\fIgateway\fR \fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBchange\fR [ \fBhost\fR\||\ \fBnetwork\fR\|]
\fIdestination\fR:\fIgateway\fR \fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
As \fBadd\fR, but when deleting or changing an entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdestination\fR \fBdone\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When the \fB-f\fR flag is specified, or the \fBflush\fR subcommand is used,
each routing table entry deleted is indicated with a message of this form.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNetwork is unreachable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An attempt to add a route failed because the gateway listed was not on a
directly-connected network. Give the next-hop gateway instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnot in table\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A \fBdelete\fR operation was attempted for an entry that is not in the table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBentry exists\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An \fBadd\fR operation was attempted for a route that already exists in the
kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrouting table overflow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An operation was attempted, but the system was unable to allocate memory to
create the new entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinsufficient privileges\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An attempt to add, delete, change, or flush a route failed because the calling
process does not have appropriate privileges.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.LP
Specifying that destinations are local (with the \fB-interface\fRmodifier)
assumes that the routers implement \fBproxy ARP\fR, meaning that they respond
to ARP queries for all reachable destinations. Normally, using either router
discovery or RIP is more reliable and scalable than using proxy ARP. See
\fBin.routed\fR(1M) for information related to RIP.
.sp
.LP
Combining the all destinations are local route with subnet or network routes
can lead to unpredictable results. The search order as it relates to the all
destinations are local route are undefined and can vary from release to
release.
