'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC.YPUPDATED 1M "Mar 20, 2003"
.SH NAME
rpc.ypupdated, ypupdated \- server for changing NIS information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/netsvc/yp/rpc.ypupdated\fR [\fB-is\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBypupdated\fR is a daemon that updates information in the Network Information
Service (NIS). \fBypupdated\fR consults the  \fBupdaters\fR(4) file in the
\fB/var/yp\fR directory to determine which \fBNIS\fR maps should be updated and
how to change them.
.sp
.LP
By default, the daemon requires the most secure method of authentication
available to it, either \fBDES\fR (secure) or \fBUNIX\fR (insecure).
.sp
.LP
On start up, \fBypupdated\fR checks for the existence of a NIS to LDAP (N2L)
configuration file, \fB/var/yp/NISLDAPmapping\fR. If the file is present,
\fBypupdated\fR generates an informational message and exits. \fBypupdated\fR
is not supported in N2L mode.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Accept \fBRPC\fR calls with the insecure  \fBAUTH_UNIX\fR credentials. This
allows programmatic updating of the \fBNIS\fR maps in all networks.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Accept only calls authenticated using the secure  \fBRPC\fR mechanism
(\fBAUTH_DES\fR authentication). This disables programmatic updating of the
\fBNIS\fR maps unless the network supports these calls.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/yp/updaters\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Configuration file for \fBrpc.updated\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/yp/NISLDAPmapping\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Configuration file for N2L
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBkeyserv\fR(1M), \fBupdaters\fR(4), \fBNISLDAPmapping\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Network Information Service (\fBNIS\fR) was formerly known as Sun Yellow
Pages (\fBYP\fR).  The functionality of the two services remains the same. Only
the name has changed. The name Yellow Pages is a registered trademark in the
United Kingdom of British Telecommunications PLC, and it must not be used
without permission.
