'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC.SMSERVERD 1M "Mar 1, 2007"
.SH NAME
rpc.smserverd \- removable media device server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/smedia/rpc.smserverd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc.smserverd\fR is a server that handles requests from client
applications, such as volume management software, for access to removable media
devices. In addition to volume management software, \fBrmformat\fR(1) and the
CDE Filemanager (when performing removable media operations) are
\fBrpc.smserverd\fR clients. The \fBrpc.smserverd\fR daemon is started by
\fBinetd\fR(1M) when a client makes a call to a Solaris-internal library to
access a SCSI, IDE, or USB device. The daemon is not started if a client
attempts to access a  floppy or PCMCIA device. Once started, the daemon remains
active until such time as it is idle for three minutes or more.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.smserverd\fR daemon is provided for the exclusive use of the client
applications mentioned above. It has no external, customer-accessible
interfaces, including no configuration file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBinetadm\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBrpc.smserverd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/rpc/smserver
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). Responsibility for
initiating and restarting this service is delegated to \fBinetd\fR(1M). Use
\fBinetadm\fR(1M) to make configuration changes and to view configuration
information for this service. The service's status can be queried using the
\fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
