.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018 Gary Mills
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd January 31, 2018
.Dt RTC 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rtc
.Nd provide all real-time clock and UTC-lag management
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl csuvw
.Op Fl z Ar zone-name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The Real Time Clock (RTC) is the hardware device on x86 computers that maintains
the date and time.
The RTC is battery-powered, so that it keeps running when the computer is shut
down.
It can be set from the BIOS and also from the operating system running on the
computer.
The RTC has no setting for the time zone or for Daylight Saving Time (DST).
It relies on the operating system for these facilities and for automatic changes
between standard time and DST.
.Pp
On x86 systems, the
.Nm
command reconciles the difference in the way that time is established between
UNIX and Windows systems.
The internal clock on UNIX systems utilizes Universal Coordinated Time (UTC)
while Windows systems usually expect the RTC to run in local time, including DST
changes.
.Pp
Without arguments,
.Nm
displays the currently configured time zone string for the RTC.
The currently configured time zone string is based on what was last recorded by
.Nm Fl z Ar zone-name .
.Pp
The
.Nm
command is not normally run from a shell prompt; it is generally invoked by the
system.
Commands such as
.Xr date 1
and
.Xr rdate 1M ,
which are used to set the time on a system, invoke
.Nm Fl c
to ensure that daylight savings time (DST) is corrected for properly.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
This option checks for DST and makes corrections to the RTC if necessary.
It is normally run once a day by a
.Xr cron 1M
job.
.Pp
If there is no RTC time zone or
.Pa /etc/rtc_config
file, this option will do nothing.
.It Fl s
This option specifies that the RTC runs in local standard time all year round.
It is incompatible with Windows, but is convenient if only one operating system
is to be run on the computer.
The
.Xr cron 1M
command is not necessary, and should not be run.
.It Fl u
This option specifies that the RTC runs in UTC time.
As a side effect, it sets the time zone in
.Pa /etc/rtc_config
to UTC.
Windows can operate in UTC time, but requires a registry change to do so.
The
.Xr cron 1M
command is not necessary.
.It Fl v
This option specifies that the RTC tracks local time, including DST changes.
This is the default.
It accomodates Windows with no changes.
The
.Xr cron 1M
command is necessary to change the RTC when DST is in effect.
.It Fl w
This option does nothing.
It is present for compatibility with Solaris 11.
.It Fl z Ar zone-name
This option, which is normally run by the system at software installation time,
is used to specify the time zone in which the RTC is to be maintained.
It updates the configuration file
.Pa /etc/rtc_config
with the name of the specified zone and the current UTC lag for that zone.
If there is an existing
.Pa /etc/rtc_config
file, this command will update it.
If not, this command will create it.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/etc/rtc_config"
.It Pa /etc/rtc_config
The data file used to record the time zone and UTC lag.
This file is completely managed by
.Nm .
At boot time, the kernel reads the UTC lag from this file, and uses it to set
the system time.
.El
.Sh ARCHITECTURE
.Sy x86
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr cron 1M ,
.Xr rdate 1M ,
.Xr attributes 5
