'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RWALL 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
rwall \- write to all users over a network
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rwall\fR \fIhostname\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rwall\fR \fB-n\fR \fInetgroup\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/rwall\fR \fB-h\fR \fIhostname\fR \fB-n\fR \fInetgroup\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrwall\fR reads a message from standard input until EOF. It then sends this
message, preceded by the line:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBBroadcast Message .\|.\|.\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
to all users logged in on the specified host machines. With the \fB-n\fR
option, it sends to the specified network groups.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI netgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Send the broadcast message to the specified network groups.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fI hostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify the \fBhostname\fR, the name of the host machine.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBlisten\fR(1M), \fBpmadm\fR(1M), \fBsacadm\fR(1M),
\fBwall\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The timeout is fairly short to allow transmission to a large group of machines
(some of which may be down) in a reasonable amount of time. Thus the message
may not get through to a heavily loaded machine.
