'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH, the default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the
.\" installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH SFTP-SERVER 1M "Oct 24, 2007"
.SH NAME
sftp-server \- SFTP server subsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ssh/sftp-server\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIlog_facility\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlog_level\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBsftp-server\fR implements the server side of the SSH File Transfer Protocol
as defined in the IETF \fBdraft-ietf-secsh-filexfer\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBsftp-server\fR is a subsystem for \fBsshd\fR(1M) and must not be run
directly. Command-line flags to \fBsftp-server\fR should be specified in the
Subsystem declaration. See \fBsshd_config\fR(4) for more information.
.sp
.LP
To enable the \fBsftp-server\fR subsystem for \fBsshd\fR add the following to
\fB/etc/ssh/sshd_config\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Subsystem   sftp     /usr/lib/ssh/sftp-server
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See \fBsshd_config\fR(4) for a description of the format and contents of that
file.
.sp
.LP
There is no relationship between the protocol used by \fBsftp-server\fR and the
FTP protocol (RFC 959).
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
Valid options are listed below. As stated above, these are to be specified in
the Subsystem declation of \fBsshd_config\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIlog_facility\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the facility code that is used when logging messages from
\fBsftp-server\fR. The possible values are: \fBDAEMON\fR, \fBUSER\fR,
\fBAUTH\fR, \fBLOCAL0\fR, \fBLOCAL1\fR, \fBLOCAL2\fR, \fBLOCAL3\fR,
\fBLOCAL4\fR, \fBLOCAL5\fR, \fBLOCAL6\fR, \fBLOCAL7\fR. The default is
\fBAUTH\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlog_level\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies which messages will be logged by \fBsftp-server\fR. The possible
values are: \fBQUIET\fR, \fBFATAL\fR, \fBERROR\fR, \fBINFO\fR, \fBVERBOSE\fR,
\fBDEBUG\fR, \fBDEBUG1\fR, \fBDEBUG2\fR, and \fBDEBUG3\fR. \fBINFO\fR and
\fBVERBOSE\fR log transactions that \fBsftp-server\fR performs on behalf of the
client. \fBDEBUG\fR and \fBDEBUG1\fR are equivalent. \fBDEBUG2\fR and
\fBDEBUG3\fR each specify higher levels of debugging output. The default is
\fBERROR\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB>\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ssh/sftp-server\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Server-side binary.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBsftp\fR(1), \fBssh\fR(1), \fBssh-add\fR(1), \fBssh-keygen\fR(1),
\fBsshd\fR(1M), \fBsshd_config\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
