'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SHARECTL 1M "Mar 16, 2009"
.SH NAME
sharectl \- configure and manage file sharing service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsharectl\fR  [\fB-h\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsharectl\fR  status [\fB-h\fR] [\fIprotocol\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsharectl\fR  get [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR]... \fIprotocol\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsharectl\fR  set [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR]... \fIprotocol\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsharectl\fR command operates on file-sharing protocols, such as NFS. The
command sets the client and server operational properties, takes and restores
configuration snapshots, and gets status of the protocol service.
.sp
.LP
The \fBget\fR and \fBset\fR subcommands (see below) require root privileges or
that you assume the Primary Administrator role. A non-privileged user can
change the Solaris CIFS client's persistent settings when granted the SMBFS
Management rights profile in the \fB/etc/user_attr\fR file. See
\fBuser_attr\fR(4) and \fBrbac\fR(5). An authorized user can use \fBsharectl\fR
to set global values for Solaris CIFS server properties in the Solaris server
management facility. See \fBsmb\fR(4).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays usage message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIproperty\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a property. See "Subcommands," below.
.RE

.SS "Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
\fBsharectl\fR supports the subcommands described below. The form of a
\fBsharectl\fR command is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsharectl \fIsubcommand\fR [\fIoption\fR]\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBget\fR [\fB-p\fR\ \fIproperty\fR] \fIprotocol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Get the property values for the specified protocol. If no \fB-p\fR option is
provided, get all the properties for the specified protocol. For NFS,
properties correspond to entries in the \fB/etc/default/nfs\fR file. See
\fBnfs\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBset\fR [\fB-p\fR\ \fIproperty\fR=\fIvalue\fR]... \fIprotocol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set properties for the specified file sharing protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstatus\fR [\fIprotocol\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display status of the specified protocol, or, if no protocol is specified, of
all file-sharing protocols.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSetting a Property
.sp
.LP
The following command sets the minimum version of the server NFS protocol to
version 3.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsharectl -p server_versmin=3 nfs\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRGetting Properties
.sp
.LP
The following command gets the properties for the NFS protocol.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsharectl get nfs\fR
lockd_listen_backlog=32
lockd_servers=20
lockd_retransmit_timeout=5
grace_period=90
nfsmapid_domain=sun.com
servers=16
server_versmin=2
server_versmax=4
max_connections=-1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command gets the value of the grace_period property for the NFS
protocol.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsharectl get -p grace_period nfs\fR
grace_period=90
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRObtaining Status
.sp
.LP
The following command obtains the status of all file-sharing protocols on a
system.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% \fBsharectl status\fR
nfs      enabled
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRConfiguring Global Settings
.sp
.LP
The following command shows how an authorized user can use \fBsharectl\fR
commands to configure global settings for the \fBex.com\fR environment in the
service management facility (SMF). See \fBnsmbrc\fR(4) for a description of the
example environment, \fBex.com\fR. See \fBsmf\fR(5) for a description of the
SMF.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsharectl set -p section=default -p workgroup=SALES \e
-p timeout=5 smbfs\fR
# \fBsharectl set -p section=FSERVER -p addr=fserv.ex.com smbfs\fR
# \fBsharectl set -p section=RSERVER -p workgroup=REMGROUP \e
-p addr=rserv.ex.com smbfs\fR
# \fBsharectl set -p section=RSERVER:george -p timeout=30 smbfs\fR
# \fBsharectl set -p section="SSERV:*:POKY" -p addr=sserv.ex.com \e
-p timeout=25 smbfs\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRDisplaying Current Settings
.sp
.LP
The following command shows how an authorized user can use the \fBsharectl
get\fR command to view the global settings for \fBsmbfs\fR in the SMF. The
values shown are those set by the previous example.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% # \fBsharectl get smbfs\fR
[default]
workgroup=SALES
timeout=5
[FSERVER]
addr=fserv.ex.com
[RSERVER]
workgroup=REMGROUP
addr=rserv.ex.com
[RSERVER:george]
timeout=30
[SSERV:*:POKY]
addr=sserv.ex.com
timeout=25
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInon-zero\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Command failed.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/include/libshare.h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Error codes used for exit status.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsharemgr\fR(1M), \fBnfs\fR(4), \fBnsmbrc\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBrbac\fR(5), \fBsmb\fR(4), \fBsmf\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
