'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SHAREALL 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
shareall, unshareall \- share, unshare multiple resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBshareall\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR [,\fIFSType\fR]...] [\fB-|\fR \fIfile\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunshareall\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR [,\fIFSType\fR]...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
When used with no arguments, \fBshareall\fR shares all resources from
\fBfile\fR, which contains a list of \fBshare\fR command lines. If the operand
is a hyphen (\(mi), then the \fBshare\fR command lines are obtained from the
standard input. Otherwise, if neither a \fBfile\fR nor a hyphen is specified,
then the file \fB/etc/dfs/dfstab\fR is used as the default.
.sp
.LP
Resources may be shared by specific file system types by specifying the file
systems in a comma-separated list as an argument to \fB-F\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBunshareall\fR unshares all currently shared resources. Without a \fB-F\fR
flag, it unshares resources for all distributed file system types.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fI FSType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specify file system type. Defaults to the first entry in
\fB/etc/dfs/fstypes\fR.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/dfs/dfstab\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBshare\fR(1M), \fBunshare\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
