'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SLPD 1M "Aug 23, 2004"
.SH NAME
slpd \- Service Location Protocol Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/inet/slpd\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIconfiguration-file\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBslpd\fR daemon provides common server functionality for the Service
Location Protocol ("\fBSLP\fR") versions 1 and 2, as defined by \fBIETF\fR in
\fIRFC 2165\fR and \fIRFC 2608\fR. \fBSLP\fR provides a scalable framework for
the discovery and selection of network services.
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR provides the following framework services:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDirectory Agent\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This service automatically caches service advertisements from service agents to
provide them to user agents, and makes directory agent advertisements of its
services. This service is optional. \fBslpd\fR does not provide directory agent
service by default. Directory agents are not databases, and they do not need to
be maintained.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBService Agent Server\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All service agents on the local host register and deregister with this server.
This service responds to all requests for services, and forwards registrations
to directory agents. By default, \fBslpd\fR is a service agent server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPassive Directory Agent Discovery \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This service listens for directory agent advertisements and maintains a table
of active directory agents.  When a user agent wishes to discover a directory
agent, it can simply query \fBslpd\fR, obviating the need to perform discovery
by means of multicast. By default, \fBslpd\fR performs this service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBProxy Registration\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This service can act as a proxy service agent for services that cannot register
themselves. \fBslpd\fR reads the proxy registration file for information on
services it is to proxy. By default, no services are registered by proxy.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All configuration options are available from the configuration file. \fBslpd\fR
reads its configuration file upon startup.
.sp
.LP
Stop and start the slpd daemon using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M).  Use the command
\fBsvcadm enable network/slp\fR to start the slpd daemon.  Use the command
\fBsvcadm disable network/slp\fR to stop it.
.sp
.LP
The file \fB/etc/inet/slp.conf\fR must exist before the \fBslp\fR service can
start the daemon. Only the example file \fB/etc/inet/slp.conf.example\fR is
present by default. To enable \fBSLP\fR, copy \fB/etc/inet/slp.conf.example\fR
to \fB/etc/inet/slp.conf\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIconfiguration-file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specify an alternate configuration file
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRStopping the \fBslpd\fR daemon
.sp
.LP
The following command stops the \fBslpd\fR daemon:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# svcadm disable network/slp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRRestarting the \fBslpd\fR daemon
.sp
.LP
The following command restarts the \fBslpd\fR daemon:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# svcadm restart network/slp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/inet/slp.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The default configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBslpd.reg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The proxy registration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4),
\fBslpd.reg\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBslp\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M., \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR, The Internet Society, June 1999.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBslpd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/slp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
