'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SMBIOS 1M "Aug 31, 2005"
.SH NAME
smbios \- display the contents of a System Management BIOS image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsmbios\fR [\fB-BeOsx\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIid\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsmbios\fR utility displays the contents of the System Management BIOS
(SMBIOS) image exported by the current system or stored in a file. SMBIOS is an
industry-standard mechanism for low-level system software to export hardware
configuration information to higher-level system management software. The
SMBIOS data format itself is defined by the Distributed Management Task Force
(DMTF). Refer to http://www.dmtf.org for more information about SMBIOS and to
obtain a copy of the SMBIOS specification and implementation guidelines.
.sp
.LP
The SMBIOS image consists of a table of structures, each describing some aspect
of the system software or hardware configuration. By default, \fBsmbios\fR
displays the entire contents of the current SMBIOS image. If the \fB-s\fR
option is specified, \fBsmbios\fR displays a summary of the structures that are
present in the image. If the \fB-w\fR option is specified, \fBsmbios\fR writes
a copy of the SMBIOS image to the specified file. \fBsmbios\fR can then be
applied to the resulting file to display its content.
.sp
.LP
\fBsmbios\fR attempts to display each structure and its content in a human-
readable fashion. If \fBsmbios\fR does not recognize a structure's type or
content, the raw hexadecimal data for the structure is displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Disable header validation for broken BIOSes.
.sp
By default, \fBsmbios\fR attempts to validate the SMBIOS header by verifying
the anchor strings, header checksums, and version number. This option might be
necessary when a BIOS has a non-compliant header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
 Display the contents of the SMBIOS entry point rather than the contents of the
SMBIOS structure table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Display only the specified structure, named by its integer id.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
 Display obsolete structure types.
.sp
By default, \fBsmbios\fR elides output for structures whose type is marked as
obsolete in the DMTF SMBIOS specification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Display only a summary listing of the structure identifiers and types, instead
of the content of each selected structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Display only those structures whose type matches the specified integer type, as
defined the DMTF SMBIOS specification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Write a copy of the SMBIOS image to the specified file and exit.
.sp
The SMBIOS entry point is written to the start of the file with its structure
table address set to the file offset of the structure table, and a new entry
point checksum is computed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Display raw hexadecimal data for the selected structures in addition to
human-readable output.
.sp
By default, hexadecimal data is only displayed if \fBsmbios\fR cannot display
human-readable output for the selected structures.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Specifies an alternate SMBIOS image to display instead of the current system's
SMBIOS image.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion. All structures in the SMBIOS image were examined
successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
A fatal error occurred, such as failure to open the specified file or device,
or corruption in the image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Invalid command-line options were specified.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/smbios\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Kernel SMBIOS image device. This device special file is used to export a
snapshot of the current system SMBIOS image.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command-line options are Evolving. The human-readable output is Unstable.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprtdiag\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmbios\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Management BIOS Reference Specification\fR (see http://www.dmtf.org)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The implementation of a System Management BIOS image is entirely at the
discretion of the system and BIOS vendors. Not all systems export an SMBIOS.
The SMBIOS structure content varies widely between systems and BIOS vendors and
frequently does not comply with the guidelines included in the specification.
Some structure fields might not be filled in by the BIOS at all, and others
might be filled inwith non-conforming values.
