'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SNDRADM 1M "Oct 2, 2007"
.SH NAME
sndradm \- control Sun StorageTek Availability Suite Remote Mirror operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR \fB-I\fR a \fImaster\fR \fIshadow\fR \fIbitmap\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR \fB-I\fR d \fImaster\fR \fIshadow\fR \fIbitmap\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR \fB-h\fR \fIusage message\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR \fB-v\fR \fIversion information\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-e\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-E\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-d\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-D\fR block [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-D\fR noblock [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-l\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-m\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-m\fR \fB-r\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-u\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-u\fR \fB-r\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-w\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-H\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-p\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-P\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-q\fR a \fIvolume\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-q\fR d [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-q\fR r \fIvolume\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-i\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-a\fR \fIvalue\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-A\fR \fIvalue\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-F\fR \fIvalue\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-W\fR \fIvalue\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR b p \fIbitmap\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR b s \fIbitmap\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR C \fItag\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR g \fIio_groupname\fR [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR m sync [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR m async [\fIsndr_set\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR \fB-f\fR \fIvolset-file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsndradm\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fB-R\fR r [\fIsndr_set\fR] *
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/sbin/sndradm\fR command is the administrative command line
interface for the Sun StorageTek Availability Suite Remote Mirror software.
Remote Mirror enables you to replicate disks between different
physically-separate Sun servers in real time. Remote Mirror is conceptually
similar to the local disk mirroring scheme of RAID 1 but it performs its
replication operations over longer distances.
.sp
.LP
If you do not specify a Remote Mirror set (\fIsndr_set\fR) on the command line,
\fBsndradm\fR operates on all configured Remote Mirror sets.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsndradm\fR command generates an entry in the Availability Suite log
file, \fB/var/adm/ds.log\fR (see \fBds.log\fR(4)), for all operations except
print (\fB-p\fR, \fB-P\fR and \fB-i\fR), help (\fB-h\fR), and version
(\fB-v\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsndradm\fR utility supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIvolset-file\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a file containing the \fIsndr_set\fR information for one or more
Remote Mirror sets in the same format as the fully specified command line
\fIsndr_set\fR documented below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fIio_groupname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Limits operations to only those Remote Mirror sets belonging to
\fIio_groupname\fR.
.sp
The \fIio_groupname\fR for a given set must be consistent across both the
primary and the secondary hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR \fItag\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
On a clustered node, limits operations to only those Remote Mirror sets
belonging to the cluster resource group or disk group name specified by
\fItag\fR. This option is not valid on a system that is not clustered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Does not prompt the user after starting a Remote Mirror operation using
\fBsndradm\fR. For all but the printing, help, and version options, the default
behavior is to prompt for a response. For example, after starting a full
synchronization from the primary to the secondary volume, Remote Mirror
prompts: \fB"Overwrite secondary with primary? (Y/N) [N]"\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsndr_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the Remote Mirror set. For a set that has already been enabled, this
can be a \fBset_name\fR in the format \fIshost\fR:\fIsdev\fR. You can supply a
fully specified Remote Mirror set in the same format as a configuration file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIphost  pdev  pbitmap  shost  sdev  sbitmap\fR \fBip\fR {\fBsync | async\fR} \e
[g \fIio_groupname\fR] [C \fItag\fR]
.fi
.in -2

These parameters are described as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIphost\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the server on which the primary volume resides.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpdev\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the primary volume partition to be replicated. Specify full pathnames
only (for example, \fB/dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s2\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpbitmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the volume partition on which the bitmap (scoreboard log) of the
primary partition is stored. Specify full pathnames only (for example,
\fB/dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s3\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIshost\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the server on which the secondary volume resides.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsdev\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the secondary volume partition. Specify full path names only (for
example, \fB/dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s4\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsbitmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the volume partition on which the bitmap (scoreboard log) of the
secondary partition is stored. Specify full path names only (for example,
\fB/dev/rdsk/c0t1d0s5\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBip\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the network transfer protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsync | async\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the Remote Mirror operating mode. \fBsync\fR is the Remote Mirror
mode where the I/O operation is not confirmed as complete until the remote
volume has been updated. \fBasync\fR is the Remote Mirror mode where the
primary host I/O operation is confirmed as complete before updating the remote
volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIio_groupname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the name of the Remote Mirror consistency group to which the Remote
Mirror set belongs. In asynchronous mode, write ordering must be preserved
across all replicating volumes in a Remote Mirror consistency group. This
ensures that the secondary volumes belonging to the group contains a valid
point-in-time copy of the corresponding primary volumes.
.sp
When adding an existing set to a consistency group or when enabling a set to be
in a group, the set must be configured with the same group name on both the
primary and the secondary hosts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItag\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For operation within a cluster, this specifies the disk group name or resource
tag of the local data and bitmap volumes in cases where this is not implied by
the name of the volume (for example, \fB/dev/rdsk/md/dg/vol\fR and
\fB/dev/vx/rdsk/dg/vol\fR both indicate a disk group name of \fBdg\fR). It is
the responsibility of the user to ensure that the cluster tag specified to the
Remote Mirror matches the appropriate cluster resource group tag, and to keep
all the Availability Suite services up to date in the event of cluster resource
group reconfigurations. It is illegal to specify the cluster resource tag on a
system that is not clustered.
.RE

.RE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
A valid \fBsndradm\fR command must specify one of the parameters listed below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fBa\fR \fImaster\fR \fIshadow\fR \fIbitmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add an \fBndr_ii\fR entry with the specified master, shadow, and bitmap to the
Availability Suite configuration file. See \fBsndrsyncd\fR(1M). If the
corresponding Point-in-Time Copy set does not exist, it is enabled when the
next \fBsync\fR command is issued on the related volume(s). When no longer
required, this Point-in-Time Copy set can be disabled by \fBiiadm\fR \fB-d\fR.
See \fBiiadm\fR(1M)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fBd\fR \fImaster\fR \fB\fIshadow\fR\fR \fB\fIbitmap\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the \fBndr_ii\fR entry with the specified master, shadow, and bitmap
from the Availability Suite configuration file. Use the \fBdscfg\fR command to
list \fBndr_ii\fR configuration entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the value, on or off, of the automatic sync variable for the set.
Once \fBautosync\fR has been requested for a set, the functionality is active
from the time a sync operation is requested until the set is manually put into
logging mode. Once the set is manually put into logging mode, the
\fBautosync\fR functionality is not active and remains inactive until the next
time a \fBsync\fR request is made. To check whether \fBautosync\fR is active,
use \fBsndradm\fR \fB-P\fR. To check whether autosync has been requested for a
set, look for the"\fBauto=on;\fR" tag for the set in the output of \fBdscfg\fR
\fB-l\fR. See \fBsndrsyncd\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum number of threads that can be created to process the
asynchronous queue when a set is replicating in asynchronous mode. The default
is \fB2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-W\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum number of writes that can be queued to a set replicating
in asynchronous mode. The default is \fB4096\fR. For example, set this value to
1 to ensure that the secondary volume is never more than one write operation
behind the primary volume.
.sp
Tuning the maximum number of writes is only valid for sets using memory-based
async I/O queues. This value is ignored when disk based I/O queues are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fB{block\fR \fB|\fR \fBnoblock}\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Toggles the \fBblock\fR|\fBnoblock\fR attribute of a disk-based queue. The
default setting is \fBblock\fR. If the I/O fill rate is larger than the drain
rate for enough time for the queue to fill, incoming I/O is blocked until there
is adequate space on the queue for it. This is to preserve write ordering
whether it is one volume or across many volumes in the same consistency group.
If \fBnoblock\fR is set, and incoming I/O fills the queue, the I/O is not
blocked. Instead, the set is put into logging and the disk queue contents are
disregarded. An ensuing update sync synchronizes the latest data to the
secondary site.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum number of 512-byte FBAs that can be queued in kernel
memory to a set replicating in asynchronous mode. The default is \fB16384\fR.
.sp
Tuning the maximum number of FBAs is valid only for sets using memory-based
async I/O queues. This value isignored when disk-based I/O queues are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the \fBsndradm\fR usage summary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the Remote Mirror version number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables Remote Mirror for the set and enables scoreboard logging. The
scoreboard is set to indicate that a full synchronization is required. Details
of the set are saved in the current configuration. See \fBdscfg\fR(1M). The
local volume and the bitmap volume are enabled for the Storage Volume driver
(see \fBsv\fR(7D)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables Remote Mirror for the set and enables scoreboard logging. The
scoreboard is cleared to indicate that the primary and secondary volumes are
already guaranteed to be fully synchronized. Details of the set are saved in
the current configuration. See \fBdscfg\fR(1M). The local volume and the bitmap
volume are enabled for the Storage Volume driver (see \fBsv\fR(7D)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables Remote Mirror for the set and halts any current synchronization
operations. \fBsndradm\fR \fB-d\fR also discards any active scoreboards that
track temporary differences between primary and secondary volumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Stops Remote Mirror replication and copy operations between primary and
secondary volumes and starts independent Remote Mirror scoreboard logging on
these volumes. When all the sets in a consistency group are replicating, it
means that the secondary volumes contain a valid point-in-time copy of the
corresponding primary volumes. Under this condition, as soon as one Remote
Mirror set drops into logging mode, the \fBrdc\fR kernel module drops all the
other sets in the group into logging mode automatically. This ensures that the
secondary volumes still contains a valid point-in-time copy. To resume the
Remote Mirror after using the \fB-l\fR parameter, use the \fB-m\fR parameter to
perform a full resynchronization or the \fB-u\fR parameter to perform an update
resynchronization (based on the scoreboard).
.sp
This option does not work on the secondary for any volumes that are currently
synchronizing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Waits for a synchronization copy to complete or abort, or returns immediately
if invoked on the secondary system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reports on the health of the network link used by the specified volume set. The
health of the link is reported as active or inactive. Active means that the
network link is actively being used for replicating or resynchronizing data,
and is therefore in good health. Inactive means that the network link is not
actively being used for replicating or resynchronizing data, which might
indicate a problem with the link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays a list of configured Remote Mirror volumes or sets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays a list of configured Remote Mirror volumes or sets with extra details.
(See state descriptions, below.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR \fBa\fR \fIvolume\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add a disk queue to a set or group. This operation is valid when the set or
group is in logging mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR \fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove a disk queue from a set or group. This operation is valid when the set
or group is in logging mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR \fBr\fR \fIvolume\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Replace a disk queue for a group or set. The queue is removed from the set or
group as in the queue-disable operation and the new disk queue is added as in
the queue-add operation. This operation is valid when the set or group is in
logging mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays a list of configured Remote Mirror volumes or sets in the same format
as the \fIvolset-file\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Attempt to reset a Remote Mirror set's error condition such as failed bitmaps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fBb\fR \fBp\fR \fIbitmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reconfigure a Remote Mirror set's primary bitmap. This command should be
entered on both primary and secondary servers. It is only possible to
reconfigure the primary bitmap for one set at a time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fBb\fR \fBs\fR \fIbitmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reconfigure a Remote Mirror set's secondary bitmap. This command should be
entered on both primary and secondary servers. It is only possible to
reconfigure the secondary bitmap for one set at a time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fBC\fR \fItag\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reconfigure the cluster tag, or disk group name, of a Remote Mirror set's local
volumes, in those cases where this is not indicated by the pathname. This does
not affect the remote volumes. This parameter cannot be used on a system that
is not clustered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fBm\fR \fB{sync\fR \fB|\fR \fBasync}\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reconfigure the replication mode of a Remote Mirror set. The sets belonging to
a consistency group must be either all synchronous or all asynchronous. It is
not possible to mix modes within a group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fBg\fR \fIgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reconfigure the consistency group of a Remote Mirror set. This command should
be entered with the same group name on both primary and secondary servers.
.sp
To remove a set from a consistency group, specify the null string (" ") when
reconfiguring the consistency group.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following parameters can be issued only from the primary server:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Starts a full volume copy from the primary volume to the secondary volume, and
concurrently enables Remote Mirror replication of new updates from the primary
volume to the secondary volume. Use this parameter when the primary and
secondary volumes might be different and no logging information exists to
incrementally resynchronize the volumes. See EXIT STATUS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reverses the direction of the synchronization so the primary volume is
synchronized from the secondary volume. Use this parameter with the \fB-m\fR or
\fB-u\fR parameter. \fB-m\fR \fB-r\fR starts a full volume copy from the
secondary (source) volume to the primary (target) volume but concurrently
enables Remote Mirror replication of new updates from the primary (source)
volume to the secondary (target) volume, ensuring the volume sets remain
synchronized. Use \fB-m\fR \fB-r\fR when the primary and secondary volume
content might differ and the secondary has the desired contents, yet no logging
information exists to incrementally resynchronize the volumes (using \fB-u\fR).
\fB-u\fR \fB-r\fR resynchronizes the primary (target) volume from the secondary
(source) volume, using the Remote Mirror scoreboard logs maintained while
replication was suspended. It then resumes Remote Mirror replication of new
updates from the primary volume to the secondary volume so that the volume sets
remain synchronized. Quiesce the workload to the volume sets during the
restore/refresh operation. This action ensures that the primary and secondary
volumes match before replication of new updates resumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Updates a Remote Mirror volume set. This parameter resynchronizes a Remote
Mirror volume set. Only the blocks logged as changed in the Remote Mirror
scoreboards are updated. Enables Remote Mirror replication for the primary
volume and also uses the Remote Mirror scoreboard logs to start the
resynchronization process so that the corresponding secondary volume matches
the primary volume.
.RE

.SS "States Returned from \fBsndradm\fR \fB-P\fR"
.sp
.LP
The following are the states that can be returned from \fBsndradm\fR \fB-P\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBvolume\fR \fBfailed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An I/O operation to the local data volume has failed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbitmap\fR \fBfailed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An I/O operation to the local bitmap volume has failed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisk\fR \fBqueue\fR \fBfailed\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An I/O operation to disk queue volume has failed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBneed\fR \fBsync\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A sync to this volume has been interrupted. It needs to be completed (or
restored via Point-in-Time Copy). The direction of the data flow must not be
changed until one or the other is done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBneed\fR \fBreverse\fR \fBsync\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A reverse sync to this volume has been interrupted. It needs to be completed
(or restored via Point-in-Time Copy). The direction of the data flow must not
be changed until one or the other is done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlogging\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Incoming writes are logged in the bitmap only. Data is not replicated to the
remote site. \fBneed sync\fR, \fBneed reverse sync\fR, and \fBqueuing\fR are
all substates of logging such that writes are logged in the bitmap, but not
replicated. Queuing mode (described below) logs the writes to the bitmap, and
queues the request for later replication by the async flushers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreverse\fR \fBsyncing\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A secondary to primary copy is in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsyncing\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A primary to secondary copy is in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBqueuing\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
During normal async replication using disk queues, i/o is placed on the disk
queue to be replicated by the async flusher threads. In the event of a
temporary link failure, the set transitions to queuing mode. The queue is not
discarded, as it would be with memory based queues. Instead, data is logged in
the bitmap and placed on the queue. When the link comes up, and \fBsndradm\fR
\fB-u\fR is issued, (automated by turning autosync on for the set) the flushers
restarts. This preserves write ordering through a temporary link outage. If
write ordering is not necessary, and only the latest data is needed, the set
can be put into logging manually (\fBsndradm\fR \fB-l\fR) and an update sync
issued (\fBsndradm\fR \fB-u\fR). This action discards the data on the queue,
and fast resyncs using the bitmap. If the queue fills before the link comes
back and the update sync is issued, the queue is discarded and the set put into
logging mode to avoid application hangs.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fREnabling a Remote Mirror Set
.sp
.LP
The following command enables a Remote Mirror asynchronous set on host
\fBexample\fR, where \fBexample\fR is the primary host and \fBexample-remote\fR
is the secondary host.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsndradm -e example /dev/rdsk/c1t0d0s1 /dev/rdsk/c1t1d0s3 \e
example-remote /dev/rdsk/c2t3d0s5 /dev/rdsk/c2t4d0s5 ip async\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRAdding a Disk Queue to an Asynchronous Set
.sp
.LP
The following command adds a disk queue volume to an asynchronous set.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsndradm -q a /dev/rdsk/c1t2d0s3 \e
example-remote:/dev/rdsk/c2t3d0s5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRRemoving a Disk Queue from an Asynchronous Set
.sp
.LP
The following command removes the disk queue volume from a set with a disk
queue volume attatched to it.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsndradm -q d example-remote:/dev/rdsk/c2t3d0s5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRDisabling a Remote Mirror Set
.sp
.LP
The following command disables a Remote Mirror set enabled on host
\fBexample\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsndradm -d example-remote:/dev/rdsk/c2t3d0s5\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Command completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When the \fB-m\fR or \fB-u\fR option is executed in a script, the exit status
following one of these options always returns success, regardless of the
current status of the Remote Mirror set.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdscfg\fR(1M), \fBsndrd\fR(1M), \fBsndrsyncd\fR(1M), \fBds.log\fR(4),
\fBrdc.cf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsv\fR(7D)
