'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c)
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SPRAY 1M "Nov 6, 2000"
.SH NAME
spray \- spray packets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/spray\fR [\fB-c\fR \fIcount\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdelay\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR \fInettype\fR] \fIhost\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBspray\fR sends a one-way stream of packets to \fIhost\fR using RPC, and
reports how many were received, as well as the transfer rate. The \fIhost\fR
argument can be either a name or an Internet address.
.sp
.LP
\fBspray\fR is not useful as a networking benchmark, as it uses unreliable
connectionless transports, UDP for example. \fBspray\fR can report a large
number of packets dropped when the drops were caused by \fBspray\fR sending
packets faster than they can be buffered locally, that is, before the packets
get to the network medium.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specify how many packets to send. The default value of \fIcount\fR is the
number of packets required to make the total stream size 100000 bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdelay\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specify how many microseconds to pause between sending each packet. The default
is \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlength\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The \fIlength\fR parameter is the numbers of bytes in the Ethernet packet that
holds the RPC call message. Since the data is encoded using XDR, and XDR only
deals with 32 bit quantities, not all values of \fIlength\fR are possible, and
\fBspray\fR rounds up to the nearest possible value. When \fIlength\fR is
greater than 1514, then the RPC call can no longer be encapsulated in one
Ethernet packet, so the \fIlength\fR field no longer has a simple
correspondence to Ethernet packet size. The default value of \fIlength\fR is
\fB86 bytes\fR, the size of the RPC and UDP headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fInettype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specify class of transports. Defaults to  \fBnetpath\fR. See \fBrpc\fR(3NSL)
for a description of supported classes.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
