'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SYSDEF 1M "Feb 25, 2009"
.SH NAME
sysdef \- output system definition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/sysdef\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInamelist\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/sysdef\fR [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-D\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsysdef\fR utility outputs the current system definition in tabular form.
It lists all hardware devices, as well as pseudo devices, system devices,
loadable modules, and the values of selected kernel tunable parameters.
.sp
.LP
It generates the output by analyzing the named bootable operating system file
(\fInamelist\fR) and extracting the configuration information from it.
.sp
.LP
The default system \fInamelist\fR is \fB/dev/kmem\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prints the configuration information from \fB/dev/kmem\fR. This is the default
and only needs to be specified if the configuration information from both
\fB/dev/kmem\fR and the system file specified with the "\fB-n\fR
\fInamelist\fR" option is needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fInamelist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies a \fInamelist\fR other than the default (\fB/dev/kmem\fR). The
\fInamelist\fR specified must be a valid bootable operating system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prints the identifier of the current host in hexadecimal. If \fBsysdef\fR
\fB-h\fR is executed  within a non-global zone and the zone emulates a host
identifier, then the zone's host identifier is printed. This numeric value is
not guaranteed to be unique.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The output includes the configuration of system peripherals formatted as a
device tree.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
For each system peripheral in the device tree, display the name of the device
driver used to manage the peripheral.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample output format
.sp
.LP
The following example displays the format of the \fBsysdef\fR \fB-d\fR output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsysdef\fR \fB-d\fR
Node 'SUNW,Ultra-5_10', unit #-1
    Node 'packages', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'terminal-emulator', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'deblocker', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'obp-tftp', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'disk-label', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'SUNW,builtin-drivers', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'sun-keyboard', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'ufs-file-system', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'chosen', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'openprom', unit #-1 (no driver)
        Node 'client-services', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'options', unit #0
    Node 'aliases', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'memory', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'virtual-memory', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'pci', unit #0
        Node 'pci', unit #0
            Node 'ebus', unit #0
                Node 'auxio', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'power', unit #0
                Node 'SUNW,pll', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'se', unit #0 (no driver)
                Node 'su', unit #0
                Node 'su', unit #1
                Node 'ecpp', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'fdthree', unit #0
                Node 'eeprom', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'flashprom', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'SUNW,CS4231', unit #0 (no driver)
            Node 'network', unit #0
            Node 'SUNW,m64B', unit #0
            Node 'ide', unit #0
                Node 'disk', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'cdrom', unit #-1 (no driver)
                Node 'sd', unit #1
                Node 'dad', unit #1
        Node 'pci', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'SUNW,UltraSPARC-IIi', unit #-1 (no driver)
    Node 'pseudo', unit #0

\fI[output truncated]\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/kmem\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
default operating system image
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhostid\fR(1), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBnlist\fR(3ELF), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBzones\fR(5)
