'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Gary Mills
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SYSLOGD 1M "Oct 17, 2013"
.SH NAME
syslogd \- log system messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/syslogd\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIconfigfile\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImarkinterval\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-t\fR | \fB-T\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsyslogd\fR reads and forwards system messages to the appropriate log files
or users, depending upon the priority of a message and the system facility from
which it originates. The configuration file \fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR (see
\fBsyslog.conf\fR(4)) controls where messages are forwarded. \fBsyslogd\fR logs
a mark (timestamp) message every \fImarkinterval\fR minutes (default \fB20\fR)
at priority \fBLOG_INFO\fR to the facility whose name is given as \fBmark\fR in
the \fBsyslog.conf\fR file.
.sp
.LP
A system message consists of a single line of text, which may be prefixed with
a priority code number enclosed in angle-brackets (\fB<\|>\fR); priorities are
defined in \fB<sys/syslog.h>\fR\&.
.sp
.LP
\fBsyslogd\fR reads from the \fBSTREAMS\fR log driver, \fB/dev/log\fR, and from
any transport provider specified in \fB/etc/netconfig\fR,
\fB/etc/net/transport/hosts\fR, and \fB/etc/net/transport/services\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBsyslogd\fR reads the configuration file when it starts up, and again
whenever it receives a \fBHUP\fR signal (see \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), at which
time it also closes all files it has open, re-reads its configuration file, and
then opens only the log files that are listed in that file. \fBsyslogd\fR exits
when it receives a \fBTERM\fR signal.
.sp
.LP
As it starts up, \fBsyslogd\fR creates the file \fB/var/run/syslog.pid\fR, if
possible, containing its process identifier (\fBPID\fR).
.sp
.LP
If message \fBID\fR generation is enabled (see \fBlog\fR(7D)), each message
will be preceded by an identifier in the following format: \fB[ID\fR \fImsgid
facility\fR\fB\&.\fR\fIpriority\fR\fB]\fR. \fImsgid\fR is the message's numeric
identifier described in \fBmsgid\fR(1M). \fIfacility\fR and \fIpriority\fR are
described in \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4). \fB[ID 123456 kern.notice]\fR is an example
of an identifier when message \fBID\fR generation is enabled.
.sp
.LP
If the message originated in a loadable kernel module or driver, the kernel
module's name (for example, \fBufs\fR) will be displayed instead of \fBunix\fR.
See \fBEXAMPLES\fR for sample output from \fBsyslogd\fR with and without
message \fBID\fR generation enabled.
.sp
.LP
In an effort to reduce visual clutter, message \fBID\fRs are not displayed when
writing to the console; message \fBID\fRs are only written to the log file.
See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fB/etc/default/syslogd\fR file contains the following default parameter
settings, which are in effect if neither the \fB-t\fR nor \fB-T\fR option is
selected. See \fBFILES\fR.
.sp
.LP
The recommended way to allow or disallow message logging is through the use of
the service management facility (\fBsmf\fR(5)) property:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/system-log/config/log_from_remote
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This property specifies whether remote messages are logged.
\fBlog_from_remote=true\fR is equivalent to the \fB-t\fR command-line option
and \fBfalse\fR is equivalent to the \fB-T\fR command-line option. The default
value for \fB-log_from_remote\fR is \fBfalse\fR. See NOTES, below.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies whether remote messages are logged. \fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE=NO\fR is
equivalent to the \fB-t\fR command-line option. The default value for
\fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE\fR is \fBYES\fR.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turn on debugging. This option should only be used interactively in a root
shell once the system is in multi-user mode. It should \fBnot\fR be used in the
system start-up scripts, as this will cause the system to hang at the point
where \fBsyslogd\fR is started.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIconfigfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternate configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImarkinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an interval, in minutes, between mark messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an alternative log device name. The default is \fB/dev/log\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable the \fBsyslogd\fR \fBUDP\fR port to turn on logging of remote messages.
This is the default behavior. See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disable the \fBsyslogd\fR \fBUDP\fR port to turn off logging of remote
messages. See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR\fBsyslogd\fR Output Without Message ID Generation Enabled
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the output from \fBsyslogd\fR when message \fBID\fR
generation \fBis not\fR enabled:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Sep 29 21:41:18 cathy unix: alloc /: file system full
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fR\fBsyslogd\fR Output with ID generation Enabled
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the output from \fBsyslogd\fR when message \fBID\fR
generation \fBis\fR enabled. The message \fBID\fR is displayed when writing to
log file\fB/var/adm/messages\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Sep 29 21:41:18 cathy ufs: [ID 845546 kern.notice]
                                    alloc /: file system full
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fR\fBsyslogd\fR Output with ID Generation Enabled
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the output from \fBsyslogd\fR when message \fBID\fR
generation \fBis\fR enabled when writing to the console. Even though message ID
is enabled, the message \fBID\fR is not displayed at the console.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Sep 29 21:41:18 cathy ufs: alloc /: file system full
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fREnabling Acceptance of UDP Messages from Remote Systems
.sp
.LP
The following commands enable \fBsyslogd\fR to accept entries from remote
systems.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s svc:/system/system-log setprop config/log_from_remote = true\fR
# \fBsvcadm restart svc:/system/system-log\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/syslog.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/run/syslog.pid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Process \fBID\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/syslogd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains default settings. You can override some of the settings by
command-line options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/log\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBSTREAMS\fR log driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/netconfig\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Transport providers available on the system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/net/transport/hosts\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Network hosts for each transport
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/net/transport/services\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Network services for each transport
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlogger\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBmsgid\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M),
\fBsvccfg\fR(1M), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBlog\fR(7D)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBmark\fR message is a system time stamp, and so it is only defined for
the system on which \fBsyslogd\fR is running. It can not be forwarded to other
systems.
.sp
.LP
When \fBsyslogd\fR receives a \fBHUP\fR signal, it attempts to complete
outputting pending messages, and close all log files to which it is currently
logging messages. If, for some reason, one (or more) of these files does not
close within a generous grace period, \fBsyslogd\fR discards the pending
messages, forcibly closes these files, and starts reconfiguration. If this
shutdown procedure is disturbed by an unexpected error and \fBsyslogd\fR cannot
complete reconfiguration, \fBsyslogd\fR sends a mail message to the superuser
on the current system stating that it has shut down, and exits.
.sp
.LP
Care should be taken to ensure that each window displaying messages forwarded
by \fBsyslogd\fR (especially console windows) is run in the system default
locale (which is \fBsyslogd\fR's locale). If this advice is not followed, it is
possible for a \fBsyslog\fR message to alter the terminal settings for that
window, possibly even allowing remote execution of arbitrary commands from that
window.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsyslogd\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
 svc:/system/system-log:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
When \fBsyslogd\fR is started by means of \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), if a value is
specified for \fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE\fR in the \fB/etc/defaults/syslogd\fR file,
the SMF property \fBsvc:/system/system-log/config/log_from_remote\fR is set to
correspond to the \fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE\fR value and the
\fB/etc/default/syslogd\fR file is modified to replace the
\fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE\fR specification with the following comment:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# LOG_FROM_REMOTE is now set using svccfg(1m), see syslogd(1m).
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If neither \fBLOG_FROM_REMOTE\fR nor
\fBsvc:/system/system-log/config/log_from_remote\fR are defined, the default is
to log remote messages.
.sp
.LP
On installation, the initial value of
\fBsvc:/system/system-log/config/log_from_remote\fR is \fBfalse\fR.
