'\" t
.\"
.\" Modified for Solaris to to add the Solaris stability classification,
.\" and to add a note about source availability.
.\"
.TH TCPDMATCH 1M "Sep 15, 2011"
.SH NAME
tcpdmatch \- tcp wrapper oracle
.SH SYNOPSYS
tcpdmatch [-d] [-i inet_conf] daemon client
.sp
tcpdmatch [-d] [-i inet_conf] daemon[@server] [user@]client
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fItcpdmatch\fR predicts how the tcp wrapper would handle a specific
request for service.  Examples are given below.
.PP
The program examines the \fItcpd\fR access control tables (default
\fI/etc/hosts.allow\fR and \fI/etc/hosts.deny\fR) and prints its
conclusion.  For maximal accuracy, it extracts additional information
from your \fIinetd\fR  network configuration file.
.PP
When \fItcpdmatch\fR finds a match in the access control tables, it
identifies the matched rule. In addition, it displays the optional
shell commands or options in a pretty-printed format; this makes it
easier for you to spot any discrepancies between what you want and what
the program understands.
.SH ARGUMENTS
The following two arguments are always required:
.IP daemon
A daemon process name. Typically, the last component of a daemon
executable pathname.
.IP client
A host name or network address, or one of the `unknown' or `paranoid'
wildcard patterns.
.sp
When a client host name is specified, \fItcpdmatch\fR gives a
prediction for each address listed for that client.
.sp
When a client address is specified, \fItcpdmatch\fR predicts what
\fItcpd\fR would do when client name lookup fails.
.PP
Optional information specified with the \fIdaemon@server\fR form:
.IP server
A host name or network address, or one of the `unknown' or `paranoid'
wildcard patterns. The default server name is `unknown'.
.PP
Optional information specified with the \fIuser@client\fR form:
.IP user
A client user identifier. Typically, a login name or a numeric userid.
The default user name is `unknown'.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -d
Examine \fIhosts.allow\fR and \fIhosts.deny\fR files in the current
directory instead of the default ones.
.IP "-i inet_conf"
Specify this option when \fItcpdmatch\fR is unable to find your
\fIinetd.conf\fR network configuration file, or when
you suspect that the program uses the wrong one.
.SH EXAMPLES
To predict how \fItcpd\fR would handle a telnet request from the local
system:
.sp
tcpdmatch in.telnetd localhost
.PP
The same request, pretending that hostname lookup failed:
.sp
tcpdmatch in.telnetd 127.0.0.1
.PP
To predict what tcpd would do when the client name does not match the
client address:
.sp
tcpdmatch in.telnetd paranoid
.PP
On some systems, daemon names have no `in.' prefix, or \fItcpdmatch\fR
may need some help to locate the inetd configuration file.
.SH FILES
.PP
The default locations of the \fItcpd\fR access control tables are:
.PP
/etc/hosts.allow
.br
/etc/hosts.deny
.SH SEE ALSO
.na
.nf
tcpdchk(1M), tcpd configuration checker
hosts_access(4), format of the tcpd access control tables.
hosts_options(4), format of the language extensions.
inetd.conf(4), format of the inetd control file.
inetd(1M), how to invoke tcpd from inetd using the libwrap library.
inetadm(1M), managing inetd services in the Service Management Framework.

.SH AUTHORS
.na
Wietse Venema (wietse@wzv.win.tue.nl),
Department of Mathematics and Computing Science,
Eindhoven University of Technology
Den Dolech 2, P.O. Box 513,
5600 MB Eindhoven, The Netherlands
\" @(#) tcpdmatch.8 1.5 96/02/11 17:01:35
.\" Begin Sun update
.SH ATTRIBUTES
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
=
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE
.\" End Sun update
