'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TH_MANAGE 1M "Jan 4, 2001"
.SH NAME
th_manage \- manage the fault injection test harness
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBth_manage\fR \fIname\fR \fIinstance\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBth_manage\fR \fIpath\fR \fIcommand\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBth_manage\fR applies the action specified by \fIcommand\fR to the instance
specified by \fIinstance\fR of the driver specified by \fIname\fR (or the
driver instance specified by \fIpath\fR). The driver instance must be running
fault injection specifications (errdefs) defined by \fBth_define\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
\fBth_manage\fR supports several commands that operate on the driver instance
specified by \fIname\fR and \fIinstance\fR (or \fIpath\fR). The commands are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbroadcast\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Awaken all \fBth_define\fR processes, causing them to display their current
status and exit if the errdef is now defunct (that is, if \fIcount\fR,
\fIfailcount\fR, and \fIacc_chk \fR are all zero).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBclear_acc_chk\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Awaken all \fBth_define\fR processes. If \fIcount\fR and \fIfailcount\fR are
already zero, then set \fIacc_chk\fR to zero, so that \fBth_define\fR exits
once it has displayed its status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBclear_errdefs\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Awaken all \fBth_define\fR \fBprocesses\fR. \fIcount\fR, \fIfailcount\fR and
\fIacc_chk\fR are all set to zero so that all \fBth_define\fR commands exit
once they have displayed their status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBclear_errors\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Awaken all \fBth_define\fR processes. If \fIcount\fR is already zero, set
\fIfailcount\fR and \fIacc_chk\fR to zero, so that \fBth_define\fR exits once
it has displayed its status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBget_handles\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
List all the access handles.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstart\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Begin or resume execution of all errdefs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Suspend all errdefs for this \fIname\fR and \fIinstance\fR (or \fIpath).\fR
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUseful Commands
.sp
.LP
To begin the tests, enter:

.sp
.LP
\fB#\fR \fBth_manage\fR \fBfoo\fR \fB0\fR \fBstart\fR

.sp
.LP
To check the status of the errdefs, enter:

.sp
.LP
\fB#\fR \fBth_manage\fR \fBfoo\fR \fB0\fR \fBbroadcast\fR

.sp
.LP
This causes each \fBth_define\fR process to print out its current status.

.sp
.LP
If the driver has reported a fatal error, you can take the driver offline using
\fBlibdevice\fR, clear the error condition by entering:

.sp
.LP
\fB#\fR \fBth_manage\fR \fBfoo\fR \fB0\fR \fBclear_acc_chk\fR

.sp
.LP
or

.sp
.LP
\fB#\fR \fBth_manage\fR \fBfoo\fR \fB0\fR \fBclear_errors\fR

.sp
.LP
and bring the driver online again using \fBlibdevice\fR.

.sp
.LP
To terminate testing, enter:

.sp
.LP
\fB#\fR \fBth_manage\fR \fBfoo\fR \fB0\fR \fBclear_errdefs\fR

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBth_define\fR(1M)
