'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 2011 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TIC 1M "Jun 25, 2011"
.SH NAME
tic \- terminfo compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtic\fR [\fB-v\fR [\fIn\fR]] [\fB-c\fR] \fIfile\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The command \fBtic\fR translates a \fBterminfo\fR file from the source format
into the compiled format. The results are placed in the directory
\fB/usr/share/lib/terminfo\fR. The compiled format is necessary for use with
the library routines in \fBcurses\fR(3CURSES).
.sp
.LP
If the environment variable \fBTERMINFO\fR is set, the compiled results are
placed there instead of \fB/usr/share/lib/terminfo\fR.
.sp
.LP
Total compiled entries cannot exceed 4096 bytes. The name field cannot exceed
128 bytes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Specifies to check only \fBfile\fR for errors. Errors in \fBuse=\fR links are
not detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR[\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Specify that (verbose) output be written to standard error trace information
showing \fBtic\fR's progress. The optional integer \fIn\fR is a number from 1
to 10, indicating the desired level of detail of information. If \fIn\fR is
omitted, the default level is 1. If \fIn\fR is specified and greater than 1,
the level of detail is increased.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Contains one or more \fBterminfo\fR terminal descriptions in source format [see
\fBterminfo\fR(4)]. Each description in the file describes the capabilities of
a particular terminal. When a \fBuse\fR\fI=entry-name\fR field is discovered in
a terminal entry currently being compiled, \fBtic\fR reads in the binary from
\fB/usr/share/lib/terminfo\fR to complete the entry. (Entries created from
\fBfile\fR will be used first. If the environment variable
\fB\fR\fBTERM\fR\fBINFO \fR is set, that directory is searched instead of
\fB/usr/share/lib/terminfo\fR.) \fBtic\fR duplicates the capabilities in
\fIentry-name\fR for the current entry, with the exception of those
capabilities that are explicitly defined in the current entry.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Compiled terminal description database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcaptoinfo\fR(1M), \fBinfocmp\fR(1M), \fBcurses\fR(3CURSES),
\fBterminfo\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When an entry, for example, \fBentry_name_1\fR, contains a
\fBuse=\fR\fIentry_name_2\fR field, any canceled capabilities in
\fIentry_name_2\fR must also appear in \fBentry_name_1\fR before \fBuse=\fR for
these capabilities to be canceled in \fBentry_name_1\fR.
