'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TND 1M "May 15, 2008"
.SH NAME
tnd \- trusted network daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/tnd\fR  [\fB-p\fR \fIpoll-interval\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtnd\fR (trusted network daemon) initializes the kernel with trusted
network databases and also reloads the databases on demand from an LDAP server
and local files.  \fBtnd\fR follows the order specified in the nsswitch.conf
file when loading configuration databases. \fBtnd\fR is started at the
beginning of the boot process.
.sp
.LP
\fBtnd\fR loads two databases into the kernel: the remote host database,
\fBtnrhdb\fR and the remote-host template database, \fBtnrhtp\fR. These
databases and their effect on the trusted network are described in their
respective man pages. When the associated \fBLDAP\fR database or local
databases are changed, \fBtnd\fR also updates the local kernel cache at the
predetermined interval.
.sp
.LP
If a local trusted networking database file is modified, the administrator
should run \fBtnchkdb\fR(1M) to check the syntax, and should also run \fBsvcadm
refresh svc:/network/tnd\fR to initiate an immediate database scan by
\fBtnd\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBtnd\fR is intended to be started from an \fBsmf\fR(5) script and to run in
the global zone. The following signals cause specific \fBsvcadm\fR actions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSIGHUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Causes \fBsvcadm refresh svc:/network/tnd\fR to be run.
.sp
Initiates a rescan of the local and LDAP \fBtnrhdb\fR and \fBtnrhtp\fR
databases. \fBtnd\fR updates the kernel database with any changes found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSIGTERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Causes \fBsvcadm disable svc:/network/tnd\fR to be run.
.sp
Terminates the \fBtnd\fR daemon. No changes are made to the kernel database.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Running \fBtnd\fR in debug mode is determined by the value of the following
service  management facility (SMF) property:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
tnd/debug_level = 0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
A value of \fB0\fR, as above, prevents debug information from being collected;
\fB1\fR turns on debugging. The default value is \fB0\fR.  Debug output is sent
to the \fB/var/tsol/tndlog\fR log file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpoll-interval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Set poll interval to \fIpoll-interval\fR seconds. The default
\fIpoll-interval\fR is 1800 seconds (30 minutes).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRChanging the Poll Interval
.sp
.LP
The following command changes the polling interval to one hour, and puts this
interval in the SMF repository. At the next boot, the \fBtnd\fR poll interval
will be one hour.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBsvccfg -s network/tnd setprop tnd/poll_interval=3600\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following command changes the polling interval, but does not update the
repository. At the next boot, the \fBtnd\fR poll interval remains the default,
30 minutes.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# tnd -p 3600
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/tnrhdb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trusted network remote-host database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/tnrhtp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trusted network remote-host templates
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/tnzonecfg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trusted zone configuration database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration file for the name service switch
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command invocation is Committed. The service is Private.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBtninfo\fR(1M), \fBtnctl\fR(1M),
\fBtnchkdb\fR(1M), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIHow to Synchronize Kernel Cache With Network Databases\fR in \fISolaris
Trusted Extensions Administrator\&'s Procedures\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
.sp
.LP
The \fBtnd\fR service is managed by the service  management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/tnd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The  service's status can be queried by using \fBsvcs\fR(1). Administrative
actions on this service,  such as requests to restart the daemon, can be
performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), as in:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svcadm restart svc:/network/tnd
.fi
.in -2
.sp

