'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TNINFO 1M "Jul 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
tninfo \- print kernel-level network information and statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/tninfo\fR [\fB-h\fR \fIhostname\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIzone-name\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItemplate\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtninfo\fR provides an interface to retrieve and display kernel-level network
information and statistics.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fIhostname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display the security structure for the specified host in the remote-host cache.
The output should reflect what is specified in the \fBtnrhdb\fR database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIzone-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display the MLP configuration associated with the specified zone. The output
should reflect what is specified in the \fBtnzonecfg\fR database.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItemplate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Display the structure associated with the specified \fItemplate\fR. The output
should reflect what is specified in the \fBtnrhtp\fR database.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisplaying Remote Host Structures Cached in the Kernel
.sp
.LP
This example shows the remote host structures cached in the kernel. The output
reflects the definition in the \fBtnrhdb\fR database.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBtninfo -h machine1\fR
   IP address= 192.168.8.61
   Template = cipso
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying Multilevel Ports for the Global Zone
.sp
.LP
This example shows the kernel-cached MLPs for the global zone. The output
reflects the definition in the \fBtnzonecfg\fR database, plus any dynamically
allocated MLPs. \fBprivate\fR indicates zone-specific MLPs.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBtninfo -m global\fR
private:23/tcp;111/tcp;111/udp;515/tcp;2049/tcp;6000-6003/tcp;
        32812/tcp;36698/ip;38634/tcp;64365/ip
shared: 6000-6003/tcp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDisplaying the \fBcipso\fR Template Definition
.sp
.LP
This example shows the kernel-cached \fBcipso\fR template definition. The
output reflects the definition in the \fBtnrhtp\fR database.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBtninfo -t cipso\fR
=====================================
   Remote Host Template Table Entries:
   __________________________
   template: cipso
   host_type: CIPSO
   doi: 1
   min_sl: ADMIN_LOW
   hex: ADMIN_LOW
   max_sl: ADMIN_HIGH
   hex: ADMIN_HIGH
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/tnrhdb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trusted network remote-host database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/tnrhtp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trusted network remote-host templates
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/tnzonecfg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Trusted zone configuration database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The command line is Committed. The output is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtnd\fR(1M), \fBtnctl\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIHow to Synchronize Kernel Cache With Network Databases\fR in \fISolaris
Trusted Extensions Administrator\&'s Procedures\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
