'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TTYADM 1M "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
ttyadm \- format and output port monitor-specific information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ttyadm\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-I\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIcount\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fImsg\fR]
     [\fB-m\fR \fImodules\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItimeout\fR] [\fB-S\fR y | n]
     [\fB-T\fR \fItermtype\fR] \fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR \fB-l\fR \fIttylabel\fR \fB-s\fR \fIservice\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ttyadm\fR \fB-V\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBttyadm\fR command is an administrative command that formats
\fBttymon\fR(1M)-specific information and writes it to standard output. The
Service Access Facility (SAF) requires each port monitor to provide such a
command. Note that the port monitor administrative file is updated by the
Service Access Controller's administrative commands, \fBsacadm\fR(1M) and
\fBpmadm\fR(1M). \fBttyadm\fR provides a means of presenting formatted port
monitor-specific (\fBttymon\fR-specific) data to these commands.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set the ``bi-directional port'' flag. When this flag is set, the line can be
used in both directions. \fBttymon\fR will allow users to connect to the
service associated with the port, but if the port is free, \fBuucico\fR(1M),
\fBcu\fR(1C), or \fBct\fR(1C) can use it for dialing out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set the connect-on-carrier flag for the port. If the \fB-c\fR flag is set,
\fBttymon\fR will invoke the port's associated service immediately when a
connect indication is received (that is, no prompt is printed and no baud-rate
searching is done).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI device\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fIdevice\fR is the full pathname of the device file for the TTY port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set the hangup flag for the port. If the \fB-h\fR flag is not set, \fBttymon\fR
will force a hangup on the line by setting the speed to \fB0\fR before setting
the speed to the default or specified value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fI message\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify the inactive (disabled) response message. This message will be sent to
the TTY port if the port is disabled or the \fBttymon\fR monitoring the port is
disabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Initialize only.  If the \fB-I\fR option is used, \fBttymon\fR will invoke the
service only once.  This can be used to configure a particular device without
actually monitoring it, as with software carrier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI ttylabel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify which \fIttylabel\fR in the \fB/etc/ttydefs\fR file to use as the
starting point when searching for the proper baud rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI modules\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify a list of pushable STREAMS modules. The modules will be pushed in the
order in which they are specified before the service is invoked. \fImodules\fR
must be a comma-separated list of modules, with no white space included. Any
modules currently on the stream will be popped before these  modules are
pushed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI prompt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify the prompt message, for example, ``\fBlogin:\fR''.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI count\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
When the \fB-r\fR option is invoked, \fBttymon\fR will wait until it receives
data from the port before it displays a prompt. If \fIcount\fR is \fB0\fR,
\fBttymon\fR will wait until it receives any character. If \fIcount\fR is
greater than \fB0\fR, \fBttymon\fR will wait until \fIcount\fR newlines have
been received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI service\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fIservice\fR is the full pathname of the service to be invoked when a
connection request is received. If arguments are required, the command and its
arguments must be enclosed in double quotes (" ").
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fBy|n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set the software carrier value.  \fBy\fR will turn software carrier on. \fBn\fR
will turn software carrier off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fI timeout\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that \fBttymon\fR should close a port if the open on the port succeeds,
and no input data is received in \fItimeout\fR seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fI termtype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set the terminal type.  The \fBTERM\fR environment variable will be set to
\fItermtype\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Display the version number of the current \fB/usr/lib/saf/ttymon\fR command.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
If successful, \fBttyadm\fR will generate the requested information, write it
to  standard output, and exit with a status of \fB0\fR. If \fBttyadm\fR is
invoked with an invalid number of arguments or invalid arguments, or if an
incomplete option is specified, an error message will be written to standard
error and \fBttymon\fR will exit with a non-zero status.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ttydefs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBct\fR(1C), \fBcu\fR(1C), \fBpmadm\fR(1M), \fBsacadm\fR(1M),
\fBttymon\fR(1M), \fBuucico\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fI\fR
