.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2020 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd February 27, 2020
.Dt TZRELOAD 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tzreload
.Nd notify timezone update
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm Op Fl a
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command triggers processes to reread timezone information.
The timezone information is cached in each process.
In response to a
.Nm
command, this cache is updated on the next call to
.Xr ctime 3C
and
.Xr mktime 3C
by each process.
By default,
.Nm
only triggers this update for the current zone.
.Pp
In addition to updating processes, the
.Nm
command also notifies
.Xr cron 1M
to reinitialize the job scheduler with the new timezone information.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Update processes in all zones.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /usr/share/lib/zoneinfo
Standard zone information directory.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cron 1M ,
.Xr zdump 1M ,
.Xr zic 1M ,
.Xr zoneadm 1M ,
.Xr ctime 3C ,
.Xr mktime 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5
.Sh NOTES
Although
.Nm
reinitializes
.Xr cron 1M ,
applications that are affected by timezone changes still need to be restarted or
reinitialized if they do not reread the new timezone information before timezone
changes take place.
