'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UADMIN 1M "Mar 25, 2009"
.SH NAME
uadmin \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/uadmin\fR \fIcmd\fR \fIfcn\fR [\fImdep\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/sbin/uadmin\fR \fIcmd\fR \fIfcn\fR [\fImdep\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBuadmin\fR command provides control for basic administrative functions.
This command is tightly coupled to the system administration procedures and is
not intended for general use. It may be invoked only by the super-user.
.sp
.LP
Both the \fIcmd\fR (command) and \fIfcn\fR (function) arguments are converted
to integers and passed to the \fBuadmin\fR system call. The optional \fImdep\fR
(machine dependent) argument is only available for the \fIcmd\fR values of
\fB1\fR (\fBA_REBOOT\fR), \fB2\fR (\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR), or \fB5\fR
(\fBA_DUMP\fR). For any other \fIcmd\fR value, no \fImdep\fR command-line
argument is allowed.
.sp
.LP
When passing an \fImdep\fR value that contains whitespaces, the string must be
grouped together as a single argument enclosed within quotes, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uadmin 1 1 "\fB-s\fR kernel/unix"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhalt\fR(1M), \fBreboot\fR(1M), \fBuadmin\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Shutting down or halting the system by means of \fBuadmin\fR does not  update
the  boot  archive.  Avoid  using  this command after
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
editing of files such as \fB/etc/system\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
installing new driver binaries or kernel binaries
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
updating existing driver binaries or kernel binaries.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Use \fBreboot\fR(1M) or \fBhalt\fR(1M) instead.
