'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2004, 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH USERMOD 1M "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
usermod \- modify a user's login information on the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBusermod\fR [\fB-u\fR \fIuid\fR [\fB-o\fR]] [\fB-g\fR \fIgroup\fR] [\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR [, \fIgroup\fR...]]
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdir\fR [\fB-m\fR [\fB-z|-Z\fR]]] [\fB-s\fR \fIshell\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fInew_name\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fIinactive\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIexpire\fR]
     [\fB-A\fR \fIauthorization\fR [, \fIauthorization\fR]]
     [\fB-P\fR \fIprofile\fR [, \fIprofile\fR]] [\fB-R\fR \fIrole\fR [, \fIrole\fR]]
     [\fB-K\fR \fIkey=value\fR] \fIlogin\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBusermod\fR utility modifies a user's login definition on the system. It
changes the definition of the specified login and makes the appropriate
login-related system file and file system changes.
.sp
.LP
The system file entries created with this command have a limit of 512
characters per line. Specifying long arguments to several options might exceed
this limit.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR \fIauthorization\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more comma separated authorizations as defined in \fBauth_attr\fR(4).
Only a user or role who has \fBgrant\fR rights to the \fBauthorization\fR can
assign it to an account. This replaces any existing authorization setting. If
no authorization list is specified, the existing setting is removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcomment\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a comment string. \fIcomment\fR can be any text string. It is generally
a short description of the login, and is currently used as the field for the
user's full name. This information is stored in the user's \fB/etc/passwd\fR
entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the new home directory of the user. It defaults to
\fIbase_dir/login\fR, where \fIbase_dir\fR is the base directory for new login
home directories, and \fBlogin\fR is the new login.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIexpire\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the expiration date for a login. After this date, no user will be able
to access this login. The expire option argument is a date entered using one of
the date formats included in the template file \fB/etc/datemsk\fR. See
\fBgetdate\fR(3C).
.sp
For example, you may enter \fB10/6/90\fR or \fBOctober 6, 1990\fR. A value of
\fB`` ''\fR defeats the status of the expired date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIinactive\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the maximum number of days allowed between uses of a login \fBID\fR
before that login \fBID\fR is declared invalid. Normal values are positive
integers. A value of \fB0\fR defeats the status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fIgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an existing group's integer \fBID\fR or character-string name. It
redefines the user's primary group membership.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR \fIgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify an existing group's integer "ID" "," or character string name. It
redefines the user's supplementary group membership. Duplicates between
\fIgroup\fR with the \fB-g\fR and \fB-G\fR options are ignored. No more than
\fBNGROUPS_UMAX\fR groups may be specified as defined in \fB<param.h>\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-K\fR \fIkey=value\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Replace existing or add to a user's \fIkey=value\fR pair attributes. Multiple
\fB-K\fR options can be used to replace or add multiple \fIkey=value\fR pairs.
However, keys must not be repeated. The generic \fB-K\fR option with the
appropriate key can be used instead of the specific implied key options
(\fB-A\fR, \fB-P\fR, \fB-R\fR, \fB-p\fR). See \fBuser_attr\fR(4) for a list of
valid \fIkey\fRs. Values for these keys are usually found in man pages or other
sources related to those keys. For example, see \fBproject\fR(4) for guidance
on values for the \fBproject\fR key. Use the command \fBppriv\fR(1) with the
\fB-v\fR and \fB-l\fR options for a list of values for the keys
\fBdefaultpriv\fR and \fBlimitpriv\fR.
.sp
The keyword \fBtype\fR can be specified with the value \fBrole\fR or the value
\fBnormal\fR.  When using the value \fBrole\fR, the account changes from a
normal user to a role; using the value \fBnormal\fR keeps the account a normal
user.
.sp
As a \fBrole\fR account, no roles (\fB-R\fR or \fIroles=value\fR) can be
present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fInew_logname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the new login name for the user. See \fBpasswd\fR(4) for the
requirements for usernames.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR [\fB-z|-Z\fR]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Move the user's home directory to the new directory specified with the \fB-d\fR
option. If the directory already exists, it must have permissions
read/write/execute by \fIgroup\fR, where \fIgroup\fR is the user's primary
group.
.sp
If the user's old home directory was located on a separate \fBZFS\fR file system
and the \fB/etc/default/useradd\fR file contains the parameter \fBMANAGE_ZFS\fR
set to the value \fBYES\fR, the file system will be destroyed after the home
directory is moved. If the parent directory of the user's new home directory is
located on a separate \fBZFS\fR filesystem and the \fB/etc/default/useradd\fR
file contains the parameter \fBMANAGE_ZFS\fR set to the value \fBYES\fR, a new
\fBZFS\fR file system will be created.
.sp
If the \fB-z\fR option is specified, \fBusermod\fR will always try to create a
new file system for the home directory and destroy the old one.
.sp
If the \fB-Z\fR option is specified, a new file system will never be created,
and the old one will never be destroyed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option allows the specified \fBUID\fR to be duplicated (non-unique).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIprofile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more comma-separated rights profiles defined in \fBprof_attr\fR(4). This
replaces any existing profile setting in \fBuser_attr\fR(4). If an empty
profile list is specified, the existing setting is removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIrole\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One or more comma-separated roles (see \fBroleadd\fR(1M)). This replaces any
existing role setting. If no role list is specified, the existing setting is
removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIshell\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the full pathname of the program that is used as the user's shell on
login. The value of \fIshell\fR must be a valid executable file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIuid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a new \fBUID\fR for the user. It must be a non-negative decimal integer
less than \fBMAXUID\fR as defined in \fB<param.h>\fR\&. The \fBUID\fR
associated with the user's home directory is not modified with this option; a
user will not have access to their home directory until the \fBUID\fR is
manually reassigned using \fBchown\fR(1).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlogin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An existing login name to be modified.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRAssigning Privileges to a User
.sp
.LP
The following command adds the privilege that affects high resolution times to
a user's initial, inheritable set of privileges.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBusermod -K defaultpriv=basic,proc_clock_highres jdoe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command results in the following entry in \fBuser_attr\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
jdoe::::type=normal;defaultpriv=basic,proc_clock_highres
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRRemoving a Privilege from a User's Limit Set
.sp
.LP
The following command removes the privilege that allows the specified user to
create hard links to directories and to unlink directories.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBusermod -K limitpriv=all,!sys_linkdir jdoe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command results in the following entry in \fBuser_attr\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
jdoe::::type=normal;defaultpriv=basic,limitpriv=all,!sys_linkdir
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRRemoving a Privilege from a User's Basic Set
.sp
.LP
The following command removes the privilege that allows the specified user to
examine processes outside the user's session.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBusermod -K defaultpriv=basic,!proc_session jdoe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command results in the following entry in \fBuser_attr\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
jdoe::::type=normal;defaultpriv=basic,!proc_session;limitpriv=all
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRAssigning a Role to a User
.sp
.LP
The following command assigns a role to a user. The role must have been created
prior to this command, either through use of the Solaris Management Console GUI
or through \fBroleadd\fR(1M).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBusermod -R mailadm jdoe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command results in the following entry in \fBuser_attr\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
jdoe::::type=normal;roles=mailadm;defaultpriv=basic;limitpriv=all
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRRemoving All Profiles from a User
.sp
.LP
The following command removes all profiles that were granted to a user
directly. The user will still have any rights profiles that are granted by
means of the \fBPROFS_GRANTED\fR key in \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4).

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBusermod -P "" jdoe\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
In case of an error, \fBusermod\fR prints an error message and exits with one
of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The command syntax was invalid. A usage message for the \fBusermod\fR command
is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An invalid argument was provided to an option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fIuid\fR given with the \fB-u\fR option is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB5\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The password files contain an error. \fBpwconv\fR(1M) can be used to correct
possible errors. See \fBpasswd\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The login to be modified does not exist, the \fIgroup\fR does not exist, or the
login shell does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB8\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The login to be modified is in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB9\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fInew_logname\fR is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB10\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Cannot update the \fB/etc/group\fR or \fB/etc/user_attr\fR file. Other update
requests will be implemented.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB11\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Insufficient space to move the home directory (\fB-m\fR option). Other update
requests will be implemented.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB12\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unable to complete the move of the home directory to the new home directory.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/useradd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
useradd, usermod and userdel configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/group\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system file containing group definitions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/datemsk\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system file of date formats
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/shadow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system file containing users' encrypted passwords and related information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/user_attr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
system file containing additional user and role attributes
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBchown\fR(1), \fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBusers\fR(1B), \fBgroupadd\fR(1M),
\fBgroupdel\fR(1M), \fBgroupmod\fR(1M), \fBlogins\fR(1M), \fBpwconv\fR(1M),
\fBroleadd\fR(1M), \fBroledel\fR(1M), \fBrolemod\fR(1M), \fBuseradd\fR(1M),
\fBuserdel\fR(1M), \fBgetdate\fR(3C), \fBauth_attr\fR(4), \fBpasswd\fR(4),
\fBpolicy.conf\fR(4), \fBprof_attr\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBzfs\fR(1M)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBusermod\fR utility modifies \fBpasswd\fR definitions only in the local
\fB/etc/passwd\fR and \fB/etc/shadow\fR files. If a network nameservice
is being used to supplement the local files with
additional entries, \fBusermod\fR cannot change information supplied by the
network nameservice. However \fBusermod\fR will verify the uniqueness of user
name and user \fBID\fR against the external nameservice.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusermod\fR utility uses the \fB/etc/datemsk\fR file, available with
SUNWaccr, for date formatting.
