'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UUCLEANUP 1M "May 19, 1993"
.SH NAME
uucleanup \- uucp spool directory clean-up
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/uucp/uucleanup\fR [\fB-C\fR\fItime\fR] [\fB-D\fR\fItime\fR] [\fB-m\fR\fIstring\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR\fItime\fR] [\fB-s\fR\fIsystem\fR] [\fB-W\fR\fItime\fR] [\fB-x\fR\fIdebug-level\fR] [\fB-X\fR\fItime\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBuucleanup\fR will scan the spool directories for old files and take
appropriate action to remove them in a useful way:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Inform the requester of send/receive requests for systems that can not be
reached.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Return undeliverable mail to the sender.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Deliver \fBrnews\fR files addressed to the local system.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Remove all other files.
.RE
.sp
.LP
In addition, there is a provision to warn users of requests that have been
waiting for a given number of days (default 1 day). Note: \fBuucleanup\fR will
process as if all option \fBtimes\fR were specified to the default values
unless \fBtime\fR is specifically set.
.sp
.LP
This program is typically started by the shell \fBuudemon.cleanup\fR, which
should be started by \fBcron\fR(1M).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Remove any \fBC.\fR files greater or equal to \fBtime\fR days old and send
appropriate information to the requester (default 7 days).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Remove any \fBD.\fR files greater or equal to \fBtime\fR days old, make an
attempt to deliver mail messages, and execute  \fBrnews\fR when appropriate
(default 7 days).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Include \fIstring\fR in the warning message generated by the \fB-W\fR option.
The default line is "See your local administrator to locate the problem".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Delete other files whose age is more than \fBtime\fR days (default 2 days).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fIsystem\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Execute for \fIsystem\fR spool directory only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-W\fR\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Any \fBC.\fR files equal to \fBtime\fR days old will cause a mail message to be
sent to the requester warning about the delay in contacting the remote. The
message includes the \fIJOBID\fR, and in the case of mail, the mail message.
The administrator may include a message line telling whom to call to check the
problem (\fB-m\fR option) (default 1 day).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fIdebug-level\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Produce debugging output on standard ouput. \fIdebug-level\fR is a single digit
between 0 and 9; higher numbers give more detailed debugging information. (This
option may not be available on all systems.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Any \fBX.\fR files greater or equal to \fBtime\fR days old will be removed. The
\fBD.\fR files are probably not present (if they were, the \fBX.\fR could get
executed). But if there are \fBD.\fR files, they will be taken care of by D.
processing (default 2 days).
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/uucp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
directory with commands used by \fBuucleanup\fR internally
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/uucp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
spool directory
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBuux\fR(1C), \fBcron\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
