'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH VOLCOPY 1M "Mar 20, 1995"
.SH NAME
volcopy \- make an image copy of file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvolcopy\fR [\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fIgeneric_options\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIFSType-specific_options\fR] \fIoperands\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBvolcopy\fR makes a literal copy of the file system. This command may not be
supported for all \fIFSTypes\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIFSType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Specify the \fIFSType\fR on which to operate. The \fIFSType\fR should either be
specified here or be determinable from \fB/etc/vfstab\fR by matching the
\fIoperands\fR with an entry in the table. Otherwise, the default file system
type specified in \fB/etc/default/fs\fR will be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Echo the complete command line, but do not execute the command. The command
line is generated by using the options and arguments provided by the user and
adding to them information derived from \fB/etc/vfstab\fR. This option should
be used to verify and validate the command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIgeneric_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Options that are commonly supported by most \fIFSType\fR-specific command
modules.  The following options are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Require the operator to respond "yes" or "no" instead of simply waiting ten
seconds before the copy is made.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
(Default) Invoke the DEL if wrong verification sequence.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIFSType-specific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Specify \fIFSType\fR-specific options in a comma separated (without spaces)
list of suboptions and keyword-attribute pairs for interpretation by the
\fIFSType\fR-specific module of the command.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoperands\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
generally include the device and volume names and are file system specific. A
detailed description of the \fIoperands\fR can be found on the
\fIFSType\fR-specific man pages of \fBvolcopy\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful file system copy
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
An error has occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/vfstab\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
list of default parameters for each file system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/fs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
default local file system type. Default values can be set for the following
flags in \fB/etc/default/fs\fR. For example: \fBLOCAL=ufs.\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOCAL:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The default partition for a command if no \fIFSType\fR is specified.
.RE

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlabelit\fR(1M), \fBvfstab\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5) Manual pages for the
\fIFSType\fR-specific modules of \fBvolcopy\fR.
