'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH VSCAND 1M "Nov 6, 2007"
.SH NAME
vscand \- vscan service daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/vscan/vscand\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBvscand\fR is the daemon that handles virus scan requests from file systems
on file open and close operations. A file system may support enabling and
disabling of virus scanning on a per dataset basis, using that file system's
administrative command, for example \fBzfs\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
If the file state or scan policy (see \fBvscanadm\fR(1M) requires that a file
be scanned, \fBvscand\fR communicates with external third-party virus scanners
(scan engines) using the Internet Content Adaptation Protocol (\fBICAP\fR,
\fBRFC\fR 3507) to have the file scanned.
.sp
.LP
A file is submitted to a scan engine if it has been modified since it was last
scanned, or if it has not been scanned with the latest scan engine
configuration (Virus definitions). The file's modified attribute and
\fBscanstamp\fR attribute are used to store this information. Once the file is
scanned, the modified attribute is cleared and the \fBscanstamp\fR attribute is
updated.
.sp
.LP
If the file is found to contain a virus, the virus is logged in
\fBsyslogd\fR(1M), an audit record is written, and the file is quarantined (by
setting its quarantine attribute). Once a file is quarantined, attempts to
read, execute or rename the file will be denied by the file system. The
\fBsyslogd\fR(1M) entry and the audit record specify the name of the infected
file and the violations detected in the file. Each violation is specified as
"ID - threat description", where \fBID\fR and threat description are defined in
the X-Infection-Found-Header in \fBICAP\fR \fBRFC\fR 3507; Extensions.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBvscand\fR connects to scan engines on port 1344. The port and
other service configuration parameters can be configured using
\fBvscanadm\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The \fBvscan\fR service is disabled by default, and can be enabled using
\fBsvcadm\fR(1M).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Daemon started successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnon-zero\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Daemon failed to start.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBps\fR(1), \fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBlogadm\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M),
\fBsyslogd\fR(1M), \fBvscandadm\fR(1M), \fBzfs\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If a file is accessed using a protocol which does not invoke the file system
open and close operations, for example \fBNFSv3\fR, virus scanning is not
initiated on the file.
.sp
.LP
File content is transferred to the scan engines as \fBcleartext\fR data.
.sp
.LP
Administrative actions for the \fBvscan\fR service, such as enabling,
disabling, or requesting a restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M).
The \fBvscan\fR service status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
The \fBvscan\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/filesystem/vscan
.fi
.in -2
.sp

