'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Joyent, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WALL 1M "Jul 13, 1994"
.SH NAME
wall \- write to all users
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/wall\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-g\fR \fIgrpname\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzonename\fR] [\fB-Z\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBwall\fR reads its standard input until an end-of-file. It then sends this
message to all currently logged-in users preceded by:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Broadcast Message from .\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If \fIfilename\fR is given, then the message is read in from that file.
Normally, pseudo-terminals that do not correspond to rlogin sessions are
ignored. Thus, when using a window system, the message appears only on the
console window. However, \fB-a\fR will send the message even to such
pseudo-terminals. Normally, \fBwall\fR sends messages to the current zone
only, from the global zone \fB-Z\fR will send messages to all nonglobal zones,
and \fB-z\fR will send messages to a specified nonglobal zone
.sp
.LP
It is used to warn all users, typically prior to shutting down the system.
.sp
.LP
The sender must be superuser to override any protections the users may have
invoked See \fBmesg\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
\fBwall\fR runs \fBsetgid()\fR to the group  \fBID\fR \fBtty\fR, in order to
have write permissions on other user's terminals. See \fBsetuid\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
\fBwall\fR will detect non-printable characters before sending them to the
user's terminal. Control characters will appear as a  "\fB ^ \fR" followed by
the appropriate \fBASCII\fR character; characters with the high-order bit set
will appear in "meta" notation.  For example, `\fB\e003\fR\&' is displayed as
`\fB^C\fR' and  `\fB\e372\fR\&' as  `\fBM\(miz\fR'.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Broadcast message to the console and pseudo-terminals.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fBg\fR \fIgrpname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Broadcast to the users in a specified group only, per the group database (see
\fBgroup\fR(4)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fBz\fR \fIzonename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Broadcast to the users in a specified zone only
.RE


.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Broadcast message to the console and pseudo-terminals of all zones.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
If the  \fBLC_*\fR variables (\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR, \fBLC_COLLATE\fR,
\fBLC_NUMERIC\fR, and \fBLC_MONETARY\fR) are not set in the environment, the
operational behavior of \fBwall\fR for each corresponding locale category is
determined by  the value of the \fBLANG\fR environment variable. See
\fBenviron\fR(5). If \fBLC_ALL\fR is set, its contents are used to override
both the  \fBLANG\fR and the other \fBLC_*\fR variables. If none of the above
variables are set in the environment, the "C" (U.S. style) locale determines
how \fBwall\fR behaves.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/dev/tty*\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmesg\fR(1), \fBwrite\fR(1), \fBsetuid\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBwall\fR displays ``Cannot send to \|.\|.\|.'' when the open on a user's
\fBtty\fR file fails.
