'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WPAD 1M "Mar 11, 2008"
.SH NAME
wpad \- WPA and WPA2 protocol daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/inet/wpad\fR [\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpre_shared_key_name\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwpad\fR daemon provides common client functionality for the WiFi
Protected Access (WPA) versions 1 and 2, as defined by IEEE802.11i standard.
WPA was created by the WiFi Alliance, an industry trade group. WPA implements
the majority of the IEEE 802.11i standard, and was intended as an intermediate
measure to take the place of Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP) while 802.11i was
prepared. WPA2 implements the full standard.
.sp
.LP
\fBwpad\fR provides the following WPA/IEEE 802.11i features:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
WPA-PSK ("WPA-Personal")
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Key management for CCMP, TKIP, WEP104, WEP40
.RE
.sp
.LP
Stop and start the \fBwpad\fR daemon using \fBdladm\fR(1M). Use:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&...to start the \fBwpad\fR daemon. Use:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm disconnect-wifi\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\&...to stop the daemon.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a WiFi Link interface to start the \fBwpad\fR daemon.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIpre_shared_key_name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify the pre-shared key used for the WiFi Link.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRStarting the \fBwpad\fR Daemon on Specific WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
To create the WPA key \fBpsk\fR, enter the  following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm create-secobj -c wpa psk\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To use key \fBpsk\fR to connect to ESSID \fBwlan\fR on link \fBath0\fR, enter
the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm connect-wifi -k psk -e wlan ath0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRStopping the \fBwpad\fR Daemon on Specific WiFi Link
.sp
.LP
To stop the daemon on the link \fBath0\fR, enter:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# \fBdladm disconnect-wifi ath0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBwpad\fR service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/wpa:\fI<link>\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
