'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH YPSET 1M "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
ypset \- point ypbind at a particular server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sbin/ypset\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIypdomain\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR] \fIserver\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
In order to run \fBypset\fR, \fBypbind\fR must be initiated with the
\fB\(miypset\fR or \fB\(miypsetme\fR options. See \fBypbind\fR(1M). \fBypset\fR
tells \fBypbind\fR to get NIS services for the specified \fIypdomain\fR from
the \fBypserv\fR process running on \fIserver\fR. If \fIserver\fR is down, or
is not running \fBypserv\fR, this might not be discovered until an NIS client
process tries to obtain a binding for the domain. At this point, the binding
set by \fBypset\fR is tested by \fBypbind\fR. If the binding is invalid,
\fBypbind\fR attempts to rebind for the same domain.
.sp
.LP
\fBypset\fR is useful for binding a client node that is not on a broadcast net,
or is on a broadcast net that is not running an NIS server host. It is also
useful for debugging NIS client applications, for instance, where an NIS map
exists only at a single NIS server host.
.sp
.LP
Where several hosts on the local net are supplying NIS services, \fBypbind\fR
can rebind to another host, even while you attempt to find out if the
\fBypset\fR operation succeeded.  For example, if you enter the \fBypset\fR
command below, you might get the subsequent response from \fBypwhich\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ypset host1
example% ypwhich
host2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The sequence shown above is a function of the NIS subsystem's attempt to
load-balance among the available NIS servers, and occurs when \fBhost1\fR does
not respond to \fBypbind\fR because it is not running \fBypserv\fR (or is
overloaded), and \fBhost2\fR, running \fBypserv\fR, obtains the binding.
.sp
.LP
\fIserver\fR indicates which NIS server to bind to, and must be specified as a
name or an IP address. This works only if the node has a current valid binding
for the domain in question and \fBypbind\fR has been set to allow use of
\fBypset\fR. In most cases, \fIserver\fR should be specified as an IP address.
.sp
.LP
\fBypset\fR tries to bind over a connectionless transport. The NIS library
call, \fByp_all()\fR, uses connection-oriented transport and derives the NIS
server's address  based on the connectionless address supplied by \fBypset\fR.
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBypfiles\fR(4) for an overview of the NIS name service.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI ypdomain\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Use \fIypdomain\fR, instead of the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fI host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set \fBypbind\fR's binding on \fIhost\fR, instead of locally. Specify
\fIhost\fR as a name.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBypwhich\fR(1), \fBypfiles\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
