'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ZIC 1M "Jan 3, 2006"
.SH NAME
zic \- time zone compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBzic\fR [\fB--\fR\fIversion\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlocaltime\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIposixrules\fR]
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdirectory\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fIyearistype\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBzic\fR reads text from the file(s) named on the command line and creates the
time conversion information files specified in this input. If a \fIfilename\fR
is '\fB\(mi\fR\&', the standard input is read.
.sp
.LP
Input lines are made up of fields. Fields are separated by any number of white
space characters. Leading and trailing white space on input lines is ignored. A
pound sign (\fB#\fR) indicates a comment that extends to the end of the line.
White space characters and pound signs can be enclosed within double quotes
(\fB" "\fR) if they are to be used as part of a field. Any line that is blank
(after comment stripping) is ignored. Non-blank lines are expected to be of one
of three types: rule lines, zone lines, or link lines.
.SS "Rule"
.sp
.LP
A rule line has the form:
.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Rule   NAME  FROM  TO  TYPE  IN   ON     AT   SAVE  LETTER/S
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields that make up a rule line are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Rule   USA   1969  1973   -  Apr lastSun 2:00  1:00   D
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the (arbitrary) name of the set of rules this rule is part of.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFROM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the first year in which the rule applies. The word \fBminimum\fR (or an
abbreviation) means the minimum year with a representable time value. The word
\fBmaximum\fR (or an abbreviation) means the maximum year with a representable
time value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the final year in which the rule applies. In addition to \fBminimum\fR
and \fBmaximum\fR (as above), the word \fBonly\fR (or an abbreviation) can be
used to repeat the value of the \fBFROM\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the type of year in which the rule applies. If \fBTYPE\fR is:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&'\fB\(mi\fR\&'\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The rule applies in all years between \fBFROM\fR and \fBTO\fR, inclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuspres\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The rule applies in U.S. Presidential election years.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnonpres\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The rule applies in years other than U.S. Presidential election years.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBeven\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The rule applies to even-numbered years.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBodd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The rule applies to odd-numbered years.
.RE

If \fBTYPE\fR is something else, then \fBzic\fR will attempt to execute the
command
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fByearistype\fR \fIyear\fR \fBtype\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

to check the type of a year: an exit status of \fB0\fR means that the year is
of the given type; an exit status of \fB1\fR means that the year is not of the
given type. The \fByearistype\fR command is not currently provided in the
Solaris environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Names the month in which the rule takes effect. Month names can be abbreviated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBON\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the day on which the rule takes effect. Recognized forms include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
the fifth day of the month
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlastSun\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The last Sunday in the month
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlastMon\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The last Monday in the month
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSun>=8\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
First Sunday on or after the eighth
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSun<=25\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Last Sunday on or before the 25th
.RE

Names of days of the week can be abbreviated or spelled out in full. Note:
There cannot be spaces within the \fBON\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the time of day at which the rule takes effect. Recognized forms include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Time in hours
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2:00\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Time in hours and minutes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB15:00\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
24-hour format time (for times after noon)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1:28:14\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Time in hours, minutes, and seconds, where hour 0 is midnight at the start of
the day and hour 24 is midnight at the end of the day.
.RE

Any of these forms can be followed by the letter \fBw\fR if the given time is
local "wall clock" time; \fBs\fR if the given time is local "standard" time; or
\fBu\fR (or \fBg\fR or \fBz\fR) if the given time is universal time. In the
absence of an indicator, wall clock time is assumed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSAVE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the amount of time to be added to local standard time when the rule is in
effect. This field has the same format as the \fBAT\fR field (without the
\fBw\fR and \fBs\fR suffixes).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLETTER/S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Gives the "variable part" (for example, the "S" or "D" in "EST" or "EDT" of
time zone abbreviations to be used when this rule is in effect. If this field
is '\fB\(mi\fR\&', the variable part is null.
.RE

.SS "Zone"
.sp
.LP
A zone line has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Zone  NAME                 GMTOFF  RULES/SAVE   FORMAT  [UNTIL]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Zone Australia/SouthWest   9:30        -         CST    1992 Mar 15 12:00
                           8:30      Aus         CST
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields that make up a zone line are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of the time zone. This is the name used in creating the time
conversion information file for the zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGMTOFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The amount of time to add to \fBUTC\fR to get standard time in this zone. This
field has the same format as the \fBAT\fR and \fBSAVE\fR fields of rule lines;
begin the field with a minus sign to subtract time from \fBUTC\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRULES/SAVE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of the rule(s) that apply in the time zone or, alternately, an amount
of time to add to local standard time. If this field is `\fB\(mi\fR\&', then
standard time always applies in the time zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFORMAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The format for time zone abbreviations in this time zone. The pair of
characters \fB%s\fR is used to show where the "variable part" of the time zone
abbreviation goes. Alternately, a slash (/) separates standard and daylight
abbreviations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUNTIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The time at which the \fBUTC\fR offset or the rule(s) change for a location. It
is specified as a year, a month, a day, and a time of day. The time of day has
the same format as the \fBAT\fR field of rule lines. If this is specified, the
time zone information is generated from the given \fBUTC\fR offset and rule
change until the time specified.
.sp
The month, day, and time of day have the same format as the IN, ON, and AT
columns of a rule; trailing columns can be omitted, and default to the earliest
possible value for the missing columns.
.sp
The next line must be a "continuation" line. This line has the same form as a
zone line except that the string "Zone" and the name are omitted. The
continuation line places information starting at the time specified as the
\fBUNTIL\fR field in the previous line in the file used by the previous line.
Continuation lines can contain an \fBUNTIL\fR field, just as zone lines do,
indicating that the next line is a further continuation.
.RE

.SS "Link"
.sp
.LP
A link line has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Link   LINK-FROM   LINK-TO
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Link   Europe/Istanbul Asia/Istanbul
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBLINK-FROM\fR field should appear as the \fBNAME\fR field in some zone
line; the \fBLINK-TO\fR field is used as an alternate name for that zone.
.sp
.LP
Except for continuation lines, lines can appear in any order in the input.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--\fR\fIversion\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Outputs version information and exits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Creates time conversion information files in the directory \fIdirectory\fR
rather than in the standard directory \fB/usr/share/lib/zoneinfo\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlocaltime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Uses the given time zone as local time \fIlocaltime\fR. \fBzic\fR acts as if
the file contained a link line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Link \fIlocaltime\fR localtime
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIposixrules\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Uses the rules of the given time zone \fIposixrules\fR when handling
POSIX-format time zone environment variables. \fBzic\fR acts as if the input
contained a link line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Link	\fIposixrules\fR posixrules
.fi
.in -2
.sp

This option is not used by \fBctime\fR(3C) and \fBmktime\fR(3C) in the Solaris
environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Limits time values stored in output files to values that are the same whether
they are taken to be signed or unsigned. You can use this option to generate
SVVS-compatible files.
.sp
This option is obsolete and may be removed in a future release.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Complains if a year that appears in a data file is outside the range of years
representable by system time values (\fB0:00:00 a.m.\fR \fBUTC,\fR \fBJanuary
1\fR, \fB1970\fR, to \fB3:14:07 a.m.\fR \fBUTC,\fR \fBJanuary 19\fR,
\fB2038\fR). This option also complains if a time of 24:00  (which  cannot be
handled by pre-1998  versions  of \fBzic\fR)  appears in  the input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR \fIyearistype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Uses the given command \fIyearistype\fR rather than \fByearistype\fR when
checking year types (see \fBRules\fR under \fBDESCRIPTION\fR).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A file containing input lines that specify the time conversion information
files to be created. If a \fIfilename\fR is '\fB\(mi\fR\&', the standard input
is read.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/zoneinfo\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Standard directory used for created files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/zoneinfo/src\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory containing source files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed*
.TE

.sp
.LP
* The \fB-s\fR option is obsolete.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtime\fR(1), \fBzdump\fR(1M), \fBctime\fR(3C), \fBmktime\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For areas with more than two types of local time, you might need to use local
standard time in the \fBAT\fR field of the earliest transition time's rule to
ensure that the earliest transition time recorded in the compiled file is
correct.
.sp
.LP
If the current \fItimezone\fR file is edited and compiled using the "\fBzic\fR"
command, the changes will only be reflected in any new processes that are
running.  The most accurate way to reflect the changes for the whole system
would be a reboot.
