'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ZONEADMD 1M "Nov 1, 2004"
.SH NAME
zoneadmd \- zone administration daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/zones/zoneadmd\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBzoneadmd\fR is a system daemon that is started when the system needs to
manage a particular zone. Because each instance of the \fBzoneadmd\fR daemon
manages a particular zone, it is not unexpected to see multiple \fBzoneadmd\fR
daemons running.
.sp
.LP
This daemon is started automatically by the zone management software and should
not be invoked directly. The daemon shuts down automatically when no longer in
use. It does not constitute a programming interface, but is classified as a
private interface.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Private
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsvcs\fR(1), \fBzlogin\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBzoneadm\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBzones\fR(5) service is managed by the service management facility,
\fBsmf\fR(5), under the service identifier:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/system/zones:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using \fBsvcadm\fR(1M). The service's
status can be queried using the \fBsvcs\fR(1) command.
