.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2010, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2019 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\"
.Dd April 04, 2019
.Dt zonestatd 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zonestatd
.Nd zones monitoring daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /usr/lib/zones/zonestatd
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a system daemon that is started during system boot.
It monitors the utilization of system resources by zones, as well
as zone and system configuration information such as psrset psets,
pool psets, and resource control settings.
.Pp
This daemon is started automatically by the zone management
software and should not be invoked directly.
It does not constitute a programming interface, but is classified as a
private interface.
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
The zonestat service is managed by the service management
facility,
.Xr smf 5 ,
under the service identifier:
.Pp
.D1 svc:/system/zones-monitoring:default
.Pp
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.Xr svcadm 1m .
The service's status can be queried using the
.Xr svcs 1
command.
.Pp
The zonestat service has the following SMF configuration property:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
config/sample_interval
.Pp
This property sets the
.Nm
sample interval.
This is the interval used by the zones monitoring daemon,
.Nm
to sample resource utilization.
This is also the interval used to determine configuration changes such as
processor set changes, resource control changes, and zone state changes.
.Pp
The default interval is 5 seconds.
.Ed
.Pp
The zonestat service makes use of extended accounting facility.
If not already enabled, it enables the tracking of process accounting
resources, and configures a process accounting file.
The zonestat service will roll the process accounting log at its configured
interval.
.Pp
If extended process accounting is enabled externally, the zonestat
service will use the process accounting log as configured.
It will not roll the accounting log, but will operate correctly if
the accounting log is rolled externally.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Private
.Sh SECURITY
The zonestat service in the global zone must be online for the zonestat
service in each non-global zone (NGZ) to function properly.
The zonestat service in each NGZ does not directly read system configuration
and utilization data, but rather reads from the zonestat service on the
global zone.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr zonestat 1 ,
.Xr acctadm 1m ,
.Xr pooladm 1m ,
.Xr poolcfg 1m ,
.Xr prctl 1m ,
.Xr rcapadm 1m ,
.Xr smf 5 ,
.Xr zones 5
