.\"     $NetBSD: ztest.1,v 1.4 2018/12/10 03:58:30 sevan Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 The NetBSD Foundation, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to The NetBSD Foundation
.\" by Sevan Janiyan <sevan@NetBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE NETBSD FOUNDATION, INC. AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
.\" TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FOUNDATION OR CONTRIBUTORS
.\" BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"/
.Dd December 10, 2018
.Dt ZTEST 1M
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ztest
.Nd ZFS stress test utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl EhV
.Op Fl a Ar shift
.Op Fl B Ar path
.Op Fl d Ar datasets
.Op Fl F Ar loops
.Op Fl f Ar path
.Op Fl g Ar threshold
.Op Fl i Ar count
.Op Fl k Ar percent
.Op Fl m Ar copies
.Op Fl P Ar passtime
.Op Fl p Ar name
.Op Fl R Ar parity
.Op Fl r Ar disks
.Op Fl s Ar size
.Op Fl T Ar time
.Op Fl t Ar threads
.Op Fl v Ar vdevs
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility stress tests the DMU, ZAP, SPA components of ZFS from user space.
.Pp
.Nm
provides a simple routine to test the functionality of a component task.
These simple routines can then be used to stress test through parallel
execution.
Tests are run as child processes of the main process.
.Pp
The checksum and compression functions are changed each time a dataset is
opened to introduce varying combinations of checksum and compression from block
to block among objects.
.Pp
While tests are running, faults are injected into the pool to verify
self-healing ability.
.Pp
To verify that the on-disk consistency is never lost after a crash, child
processes are killed at random with a SIGKILL signal, after which the parent
process invokes a new child to run the test again on the same storage pool.
.Pp
Many of the tests record the transaction group number as part of their data.
When reading old data, tests verify that the transaction group number is less
than the current, open state, transaction group to ensure the consistency of
tests and detect unaccounted changes.
It is advised that any new tests added to
.Nm
should also perform the same check with transaction group numbers, if
applicable.
.Pp
The main
.Nm
process uses an
.Xr mmap 2
temporary file to pass information to child processes which allows shared
memory to survive
.Xr exec 3
syscall.
A copy of the
.Vt ztest_shared_hdr_t
struct containing information on the size and number of shared
structures in the file is always stored at offset 0 of the file.
.Pp
For backwards compatibility testing
.Nm
can invoke an alternative version of
.Nm
after a
.Dv SIGKILL
signal using the
.Fl B
flag.
.Pp
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width 5n
.It Fl a Ar shift
alignment shift (default: 9) use 0 for random
.It Fl B Ar path
alt ztest (default: <none>) alternate ztest path
.It Fl d Ar datasets
datasets (default: 7)
.It Fl E
use existing pool instead of creating new one
.It Fl F Ar loops
freezeloops (default: 50) max loops in
.Fn spa_freeze
.It Fl f Ar path
dir (default:
.Pa /tmp )
file directory for vdev files
.It Fl g Ar threshold
gang block threshold (default: 32K)
.It Fl h
print help
.It Fl i Ar count
init count (default: 1) initialize pool
.Ar count
times
.It Fl k Ar percent
kill percentage (default: 70%)
.It Fl m Ar copies
mirror copies (default: 2)
.It Fl P Ar passtime
passtime (default: 60 sec) time per pass
.It Fl p Ar name
pool name (default: ztest)
.It Fl R Ar parity
raidz parity (default: 1)
.It Fl r Ar disks
raidz disks (default: 4)
.It Fl s Ar size
size of each vdev (default: 256M)
.It Fl T Ar time
time (default: 300 sec) total run time
.It Fl t Ar threads
threads (default: 23)
.It Fl V
verbose (use multiple times to increase verbosity)
.It Fl v Ar vdevs
number of vdevs (default: 5)
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
This man page was written by
.An Sevan Janiyan
.Aq Mt sevan@NetBSD.org .
.Sh CAVEATS
To allow for backward compatibility testing using older versions of
.Nm
the information stored in the
.Xr mmap 2
temporary file passed from parent process to child must
remain compatible with older versions of
.Nm .
