.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd "Jul 20, 2014"
.Dt APROPOS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm apropos, whatis
.Nd locate commands by keyword lookup
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm apropos
.Op Fl M Ar path
.Op Fl s Ar section
.Ar keyword ...
.Nm whatis
.Op Fl M Ar path
.Op Fl s Ar section
.Ar keyword ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm apropos
utility displays the man page name, section number, and a
short description for each man page whose
.Em NAME
line contains
.Ar keyword .
This information is contained in the
.Nm whatis
database created by the
.Fl w
option used with
.Xr man 1 .
If this database is not present,
.Nm apropos
and
.Nm whatis
fail.
.Lp
Each word is considered
separately and the case of letters is ignored.
Words which are part of other words are considered; for example, when looking
for
.Sq compile ,
.Nm apropos
finds all instances of
.Sq compiler
also.
.Lp
The
.Nm whatis
command performs the same search, but only matches whole words.
In the above example,
.Nm whatis
would not match the instances of
.Sq compiler
when
.Ar keyword
is
.Sq compile .
.Lp
The
.Nm apropos
command is actually just the
.Fl k
option to the
.Xr man 1
command.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-s section"
.It Fl M Ar path
Force a specific colon separated manual path instead of the
default search path.
Overrides the MANPATH environment variable.
.It Fl s Ar section
Restrict search to specified section.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width "MANPATH, PATH"
.It Ev MANPATH , PATH
Used to find the location of the
.Nm whatis
database.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/usr/share/man/whatis"
.It Pa /usr/share/man/whatis
table of contents and keyword database
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Example 1 To find a man page whose NAME line contains a keyword
Try
.Lp
.Dl example% apropos password
.Lp
If the line starts
.So Ar filename Ns Po Ar section Pc .\|.\|. Sc
you can run
.Lp
.Dl % Nm man Fl s Ar section Ar filename
.Lp
to display the man page for \fIfilename\fR.
.Ss Example 2 To find the man page for the subroutine \fBprintf()
Try
.Lp
.Dl example% Nm apropos Li format
.Lp
and then
.Lp
.Dl example% Nm man Fl s Ar 3C Li printf
.Lp
to get the manual page on the subroutine
.Xr printf 3C .
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It "/usr/share/man/whatis: No such file or directory"
The
.Nm whatis
database does not exist.
The command
.Nm man
.Fl w
must be run to create it.
.El
.Sh CODE SET INDEPENDENCE
Enabled.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Nm Committed .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr man 1 ,
.Xr catman 1M
