'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement  specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
.TH ATQ 1 "Aug 13, 1999"
.SH NAME
atq \- display the jobs queued to run at specified times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBatq\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fIusername\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBatq\fR utility displays the \fBat\fR jobs queued up for the current
user. \fBat\fR(1) is a utility that allows users to execute commands at a later
date. If invoked by a user with the \fBsolaris.jobs.admin\fR authorization,
\fBatq\fR will display all jobs in the queue.
.sp
.LP
If no options are given, the jobs are displayed in chronological order of
execution.
.sp
.LP
When an authorized user invokes \fBatq\fR without specifying \fIusername\fR,
the entire queue is displayed; when a \fIusername\fR is specified, only those
jobs belonging to the named user are displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the queued jobs in the order they were created (that is, the time that
the \fBat\fR command was given).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays only the total number of jobs currently in the queue.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/cron/atjobs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
spool area for at jobs.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBat\fR(1), \fBatrm\fR(1), \fBauths\fR(1), \fBcron\fR(1M), \fBauth_attr\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
