'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
.TH ATRM 1 "Jul 16, 2007"
.SH NAME
atrm \- remove jobs spooled by at or batch
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBatrm\fR [\fB-afi\fR] [ [\fIjob\fR \fI#\fR] [\fIuser\fR]...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBatrm\fR utility removes delayed-execution jobs that were created with
the \fBat\fR(1) command, but have not yet executed. The list of these jobs and
associated job numbers can be displayed by using \fBatq\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
\fBatrm\fR removes each job-number you specify, and/or all jobs belonging to
the user you specify, provided that you own the indicated jobs.
.sp
.LP
You can only remove jobs belonging to other users if you have
\fBsolaris.jobs.admin\fR privileges.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All. Removes all unexecuted jobs that were created by the current user. If
invoked by the privileged user, the entire queue is flushed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Force. All information regarding the removal of the specified jobs is
suppressed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Interactive. \fBatrm\fR asks if a job should be removed. If the response is
affirmative, the job is removed.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/cron/atjobs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Spool area for \fBat\fR jobs
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBatrm\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.LP
Affirmative responses are processed using the extended regular expression
defined for the \fByesexpr\fR keyword in the \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR category of the
user's locale. The locale specified in the \fBLC_COLLATE\fR category defines
the behavior of ranges, equivalence classes, and multi-character collating
elements used in the expression defined for \fByesexpr\fR. The locale specified
in \fBLC_CTYPE\fR determines the locale for interpretation of sequences of
bytes of text data a characters, the behavior of character classes used in the
expression defined for the \fByesexpr\fR. See \fBlocale\fR(5)
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBat\fR(1), \fBatq\fR(1), \fBauths\fR(1), \fBcron\fR(1M), \fBauth_attr\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlocale\fR(5)
