'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUTHS 1 "Mar 25, 2004"
.SH NAME
auths \- print authorizations granted to a user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBauths\fR [ \fIuser\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBauths\fR command prints on standard output the authorizations that you
or the optionally-specified user or role have been granted. Authorizations are
rights that are checked by certain privileged programs to determine whether a
user may execute restricted functionality.
.sp
.LP
Each user may have zero or more authorizations. Authorizations are represented
by fully-qualified names, which identify the organization that created the
authorization and the functionality that it controls. Following the Java
convention, the hierarchical components of an authorization are separated by
dots (\fB\&.\fR), starting with the reverse order Internet domain name of the
creating organization, and ending with the specific function within a class of
authorizations.
.sp
.LP
An asterisk (\fB*\fR) indicates all authorizations in a class.
.sp
.LP
A user's authorizations are looked up in \fBuser_attr\fR(4) and in the
\fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR file (see \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4)). Authorizations
may be specified directly in \fBuser_attr\fR(4) or indirectly through
\fBprof_attr\fR(4). Authorizations may also be assigned to every user in the
system directly as default authorizations or indirectly as default profiles in
the \fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample output
.sp
.LP
The \fBauths\fR output has the following form:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBauths tester01 tester02\fR
tester01 : solaris.system.date,solaris.jobs.admin
tester02 : solaris.system.*
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Notice that there is no space after the comma separating the authorization
names in \fBtester01\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/user_attr\fR
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/auth_attr\fR
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/policy.conf\fR
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/security/prof_attr\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprofiles\fR(1), \fBroles\fR(1), \fBgetauthattr\fR(3SECDB),
\fBauth_attr\fR(4), \fBpolicy.conf\fR(4), \fBprof_attr\fR(4),
\fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
