'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CALENDAR 1 "Feb 1, 1995"
.SH NAME
calendar \- reminder service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcalendar\fR [\fB-\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcalendar\fR utility consults the file \fBcalendar\fR in the current
directory and writes lines that contain today's or tomorrow's date anywhere in
the line to standard output. Most reasonable month-day dates such as \fBAug.
24\fR, \fBaugust 24\fR, \fB8/24\fR, and so forth, are recognized, but not \fB24
August\fR or \fB24/8\fR. On Fridays and weekends "tomorrow" extends through
Monday. \fBcalendar\fR can be invoked regularly by using the \fBcrontab\fR(1)
or \fBat\fR(1) commands.
.sp
.LP
When the optional argument \fB-\fR is present, \fBcalendar\fR does its job for
every user who has a file \fBcalendar\fR in his or her login directory and
sends them any positive results by \fBmail\fR(1). Normally this is done daily
by facilities in the UNIX operating system (see\fBcron\fR(1M)).
.sp
.LP
If the environment variable \fBDATEMSK\fR is set, \fBcalendar\fR will use its
value as the full path name of a template file containing format strings. The
strings consist of conversion specifications and text characters and are used
to provide a richer set of allowable date formats in different languages by
appropriate settings of the environment variable \fBLANG\fR or \fBLC_TIME\fR;
see \fBenviron\fR(5). See\fBstrftime\fR(3C) for the list of allowable
conversion specifications.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRPossible contents of a template
.sp
.LP
The following example shows the possible contents of a template:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
%B %eth of the year %Y
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fB%B\fR represents the full month name, \fB%e\fR the day of month and \fB%Y\fR
the year (4 digits).

.sp
.LP
If \fBDATEMSK\fR is set to this template, the following \fBcalendar\fR file
would be valid:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
March 7th of the year 1989 <Reminder>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBcalendar\fR: \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR,
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBNLSPATH\fR, and \fBTZ\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
system password file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/cal*\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
temporary files used by \fBcalendar\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/calprog\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
program used to determine dates for today and tomorrow
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBat\fR(1), \fBcrontab\fR(1), \fBmail\fR(1), \fBcron\fR(1M), \fBypbind\fR(1M),
\fBstrftime\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Appropriate lines beginning with white space will not be printed.
.sp
.LP
Your calendar must be public information for you to get reminder service.
.sp
.LP
\fBcalendar\fR's extended idea of ``tomorrow'' does not account for holidays.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-\fR argument works only on calendar files that are local to the
machine; \fBcalendar\fR is intended not to work on calendar files that are
mounted remotely with \fBNFS.\fR Thus, `\fBcalendar \fR\fB-\fR' should be run
only on diskful machines where home directories exist;  running it on a
diskless client has no effect.
.sp
.LP
\fBcalendar\fR is no longer in the default root crontab. Because of the network
burden `\fBcalendar \fR\fB-\fR' can induce, it is inadvisable in an environment
running \fBypbind\fR(1M) with a large passwd.byname map.  If, however, the
usefulness of \fBcalendar\fR outweighs the network impact, the super-user may
run `\fBcrontab\fR \fB-e\fR' to edit the root crontab. Otherwise, individual
users may wish to use `\fBcrontab\fR \fB-e\fR' to edit their own crontabs to
have \fBcron\fR invoke \fBcalendar\fR without the \fB-\fR argument, piping
output to mail addressed to themselves.
