'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CANCEL 1 "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
cancel \- cancel print request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcancel\fR [\fIrequest-ID\fR...] [\fIdestination\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcancel\fR \fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR... [\fIdestination\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBcancel\fR utility cancels print requests. There are two forms of the
\fBcancel\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The first form of \fBcancel\fR has two optional arguments: print requests
(\fIrequest-ID\fR) and destinations (\fIdestination\fR). Specifying
\fIrequest-ID\fR with \fIdestination\fR cancels \fIrequest-ID\fR on
\fIdestination\fR. Specifying only the destination cancels the current print
request on \fIdestination\fR. If \fIdestination\fR is not specified,
\fBcancel\fR cancels the requested print request on all destinations.
.sp
.LP
The second form of \fBcancel\fR cancels a user's print requests on specific
destinations.
.sp
.LP
Users can only cancel print requests associated with their username. By
default, users can only cancel print requests on the host from which the print
request was submitted. If a super-user has set \fBuser-equivalence=true\fR in
\fB/etc/printers.conf\fR on the print server, users can cancel print requests
associated with their username on any host. Super-users can cancel print
requests on the host from which the print request was submitted. Superusers can
also cancel print requests from the print server.
.sp
.LP
The print client commands locate destination information using the
\fBprinters\fR database in the name service switch. See \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
\fBprinters\fR(4), and \fBprinters.conf\fR(4) for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The name of the user for which print requests are to be cancelled. Specify
\fIuser\fR as a username.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdestination\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The destination on which the print requests are to be canceled.
\fIdestination\fR is the name of a printer or class of printers (see
\fBlpadmin\fR(1M)). If \fIdestination\fR is not specified, \fBcancel\fR cancels
the requested print request on all destinations. Specify \fIdestination\fR
using atomic, URI-style (\fIscheme\fR\fB://\fR\fIendpoint\fR), or POSIX-style
(\fIserver\fR\fB:\fR\fIdestination\fR), names. See Notes for information
regarding using URI-style or POSIX-style destination names with \fBcancel\fR.
See \fBprinters.conf\fR(4) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrequest-ID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The print request to be canceled. Specify \fIrequest-ID\fR using \fBLP-style\fR
request \fBIDs\fR (\fIdestination\fR-\fInumber\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The name of the user for which the print requests are to be cancelled. Specify
\fIuser\fR as a username.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/printers.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
System printer configuration database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.printers\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
User-configurable printer database
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBou=printers\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
LDAP version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprinters.conf.byname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
\fBNIS\fR version of \fB/etc/printers.conf\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBlp\fR(1), \fBlpq\fR(1B), \fBlpr\fR(1B), \fBlprm\fR(1B), \fBlpstat\fR(1),
\fBlpadmin\fR(1M), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBprinters\fR(4),
\fBprinters.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
URI-style and POSIX-style destination names (\fIserver\fR:\fIdestination\fR)
are treated as print requests if \fIdestination\fR has the same format as an
\fBLP-style\fR \fIrequest-ID\fR. See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
Some print servers send cancelation notification to job owners when their print
jobs have been cancelled. This notification usually comes in the form of an
email message. Cancelation notices cannot be disabled on a Solaris server.
.sp
.LP
When IPP is in use, the user is prompted for a passphrase if the remote print
service is configured to require authentication.
