.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH CD 1 "Apr 8, 2008"
.SH NAME
cd, chdir, pushd, popd, dirs \- change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/cd\fR [\fIdirectory\fR]
.fi

.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchdir\fR [\fIargument\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR [\fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchdir\fR [\fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpushd\fR [\fB+\fR\fIn\fR | \fIdir\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpopd\fR [\fB+\fR\fIn\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdirs\fR [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh, ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR [\fB-L\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fIarg\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcd\fR \fIold\fR \fInew\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/cd"
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/bin/cd\fR utility changes the current directory in the context of
the \fBcd\fR utility only. This is in contrast to the version built into the
shell. \fB/usr/bin/cd\fR has no effect on the invoking process but can be used
to determine whether or not a given directory can be set as the current
directory.
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
The Bourne shell built-in \fBcd\fR changes the current directory to
\fIargument\fR. The shell parameter \fBHOME\fR is the default \fIargument\fR.
The shell parameter \fBCDPATH\fR defines the search path for the directory
containing \fIargument\fR. Alternative directory names are separated by a colon
(\fB:\fR). The default path is \fB<null>\fR (specifying the current directory).
The current directory is specified by a null path name, which can appear
immediately after the equal sign or between the colon delimiters anywhere else
in the path list. If \fIargument\fR begins with `\fB/\fR', `\fB\&.\fR', or
`\fB\&.\|.\fR', the search path is not used. Otherwise, each directory in the
path is searched for \fIargument\fR. \fBcd\fR must have execute (search)
permission in \fIargument\fR. Because a new process is created to execute each
command, \fBcd\fR would be ineffective if it were written as a normal command;
therefore, it is recognized by and is internal to the shell. (See \fBpwd\fR(1),
\fBsh\fR(1), and \fBchdir\fR(2)).
.sp
.LP
\fBchdir\fR is just another way to call \fBcd\fR.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
If \fIdir\fR is not specified, the C shell built-in \fBcd\fR uses the value of
shell parameter \fBHOME\fR as the new working directory. If \fIdir\fR specifies
a complete path starting with `\fB/\fR', `\fB\&.\fR', or `\fB\&.\|.\fR',
\fIdir\fR becomes the new working directory. If neither case applies, \fBcd\fR
tries to find the designated directory relative to one of the paths specified
by the \fBCDPATH\fR shell variable. \fBCDPATH\fR has the same syntax as, and
similar semantics to, the \fBPATH\fR shell variable. \fBcd\fR must have execute
(search) permission in \fIdir\fR. Because a new process is created to execute
each command, \fBcd\fR would be ineffective if it were written as a normal
command; therefore, it is recognized by and is internal to the C-shell. (See
\fBpwd\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), and \fBchdir\fR(2)).
.sp
.LP
\fBchdir\fR changes the shell's working directory to directory \fIdir\fR. If no
argument is given, change to the home directory of the user. If \fIdir\fR is a
relative pathname not found in the current directory, check for it in those
directories listed in the \fBcdpath\fR variable. If \fIdir\fR is the name of a
shell variable whose value starts with a \fB/\fR, change to the directory named
by that value.
.sp
.LP
\fBpushd\fR pushes a directory onto the directory stack. With no arguments,
exchange the top two elements.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Rotate the \fIn\fR'th entry to the top of the stack and \fBcd\fR to it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Push the current working directory onto the stack and change to \fIdir\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBpopd\fR pops the directory stack and \fBcd\fR to the new top directory. The
elements of the directory stack are numbered from 0 starting at the top.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Discard the \fIn\fR'th entry in the stack.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBdirs\fR prints the directory stack, most recent to the left; the first
directory shown is the current directory. With the \fB-l\fR argument, produce
an unabbreviated printout; use of the \fB~\fR notation is suppressed.
.SS "ksh, ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The Korn shell built-in \fBcd\fR command can be in either of two forms. In the
first form it changes the current directory to \fIarg\fR. If \fIarg\fR is
\fB\(mi\fR the directory is changed to the previous directory. The shell
variable \fBHOME\fR is the default \fIarg\fR. The environment variable
\fBPWD\fR is set to the current directory. If the \fBPWD\fR is changed, the
\fBOLDPWD\fR environment variable shall also be changed to the value of the old
working directory, that is, the current working directory immediately prior to
the call to change directory (\fBcd\fR). The shell variable \fBCDPATH\fR
defines the search path for the directory containing \fIarg\fR. Alternative
directory names are separated by a colon (\fB:\fR). The default path is
\fBnull\fR (specifying the current directory). The current directory is
specified by a null path name, which can appear immediately after the equal
sign or between the colon delimiters anywhere else in the path list. If
\fIarg\fR begins with a `\fB/\fR', `\fB\&.\fR', or `\fB\&.\|.\fR', then the
search path is not used. Otherwise, each directory in the path is searched for
\fIarg\fR. If unsuccessful, \fBcd\fR attempts to change directories to the
pathname formed by the concatenation of the value of PWD, a slash character,
and arg.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Handles the operation dot-dot (\fB\&..\fR) logically. Symbolic link components
are \fBnot\fR resolved before dot-dot components are processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Handles the operand dot-dot physically. Symbolic link components \fBare\fR
resolved before dot-dot components are processed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If both \fB-L\fR and \fB-P\fR options are specified, the last option to be
invoked is used and the other is ignored. If neither \fB-L\fR nor \fB-P\fR is
specified, the operand is handled dot-dot logically.
.sp
.LP
The second form of \fBcd\fR substitutes the string \fInew\fR for the string
\fIold\fR in the current directory name, \fBPWD\fR and tries to change to this
new directory.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcd\fR command cannot be executed by \fBrksh\fR. Because a new process is
created to execute each command, \fBcd\fR would be ineffective if it were
written as a normal command; therefore, it is recognized by and is internal to
the Korn shell. (See \fBpwd\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), and \fBchdir\fR(2)).
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An absolute or relative pathname of the directory that becomes the new working
directory. The interpretation of a relative pathname by \fBcd\fR depends on the
\fBCDPATH\fR environment variable.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
If a non-empty directory name from \fBCDPATH\fR is used, an absolute pathname
of the new working directory is written to the standard output as follows:
.sp
.LP
\fB"%s\en"\fR, <\fInew directory\fR>
.sp
.LP
Otherwise, there is no output.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBcd\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCDPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A colon-separated list of pathnames that refer to directories. If the
\fIdirectory\fR operand does not begin with a slash \fB(\fR \fB/\fR \fB)\fR
character, and the first component is not dot or dot-dot, \fBcd\fR searches for
\fIdirectory\fR relative to each directory named in the \fBCDPATH\fR variable,
in the order listed. The new working directory sets to the first matching
directory found. An empty string in place of a directory pathname represents
the current directory. If \fBCDPATH\fR is not set, it is treated as if it were
an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHOME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The name of the home directory, used when no \fIdirectory\fR operand is
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOLDPWD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A pathname of the previous working directory, used by \fBcd-\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPWD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A pathname of the current working directory, set by \fBcd\fR after it has
changed to that directory.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by \fBcd\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The directory was successfully changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "csh, ksh, sh"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBpwd\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1),
\fBchdir\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
