'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CKITEM 1 "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
ckitem, erritem, helpitem \- build a menu; prompt for and return a menu item
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBckitem\fR [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-uno\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlabel\fR]
     [ [\fB-i\fR \fIinvis\fR] [,]...] [\fB-m\fR \fImax\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR \fI error\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]]
     [\fIchoice\fR [...]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/erritem\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR] [\fIchoice\fR [..]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/sadm/bin/helpitem\fR [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fIchoice\fR [..]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBckitem\fR utility builds a menu and prompts the user to choose one item
from a menu of items. It then  verifies the response. Options for this command
define, among other things, a prompt message whose response will be a menu
item, text for help and error messages, and a default value (which will be
returned if the user responds with a carriage return).
.sp
.LP
By default, the menu is formatted so that each item is prepended by a number
and is printed in columns across the terminal. Column length is determined by
the longest choice. Items are alphabetized.
.sp
.LP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted
automatically. Any white space used in the definition (including newline) is
stripped. The \fB-W\fR option cancels the automatic formatting. When a tilde is
placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text will
be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text to be
displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as
defined under \fBNOTES\fR) will be displayed.
.sp
.LP
Two visual tool modules are linked to the \fBckitem\fR command. They are
\fBerritem\fR (which formats and displays an error message) and \fBhelpitem\fR
(which formats and displays a help message). These modules should be used in
conjunction with \fBFML\fR objects. In this instance, the \fBFML\fR object
defines the prompt. When \fIchoice\fR is defined in these modules, the messages
will describe the available menu choice (or choices).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI default\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the default value as \fIdefault\fR. The default is not validated and so
does not have to meet any criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fI error\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the error message as \fI error\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI filename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define a file, \fIfilename\fR, which contains a list of menu items to be
displayed. (The format of this file is: \fBtoken<tab>description\fR. Lines
beginning with a pound sign (#) are designated as comments and ignored.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fI help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the help messages as \fI help\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fI invis\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define invisible menu choices (those which will not be printed in the menu).
(For example, ``all'' used as an invisible choice would mean it is a legal
option but does not appear in the menu. Any number of invisible choices may be
defined.) Invisible choices should be made known to a user either in the prompt
or in a help message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fI pid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that the process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR is to be sent a signal if the user
chooses to abort.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI label\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define a label, \fIlabel\fR, to print above the menu.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI max\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the maximum number of menu choices that the user can choose. The default
is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that menu items should not be displayed in alphabetical order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that only one menu token will be returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI prompt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the prompt message as \fIprompt\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI signal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that process \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR defined with the \fB-k\fR option is to
be sent signal \fI signal\fR when quit is chosen. If no signal is specified,
\fBSIGTERM\fR is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that menu items should be displayed as an unnumbered list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-W\fR\fI width\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line length
of \fIwidth\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIchoice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Define menu items. Items should be separated by white space or newline.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBEOF\fR on input, or negative width on \fB-W\fR option, or inability to open
file on \fB-f\fR option, or usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
User termination (quit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
No choices from which to choose.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The user may input the number of the menu item if choices are numbered or as
much of the string required for a unique identification of the item. Long menus
are paged with 10 items per page.
.sp
.LP
When menu entries are defined both in a file (by using the \fB-f\fR option) and
also on the command line, they are usually combined alphabetically. However, if
the \fB-n\fR option is used to suppress  alphabetical ordering, then the
entries defined in the file are shown first, followed by the options defined on
the command line.
.sp
.LP
The default prompt for \fBckitem\fR is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter selection [?,??,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
One question mark will give a help message and then redisplay the prompt. Two
question marks will give a help message and then redisplay the menu label, the
menu and the prompt.
.sp
.LP
The default error message if you typed a number is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Bad numeric choice specification
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default error message if you typed a string is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Entry does not match available menu selection. Enter the number
of the menu item you wish to select, the token which is associated
with the menu item, or a partial string which uniquely identifies the
token for the menu item. Enter ?? to reprint the menu.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default help message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter the number of the menu item you wish to select, the token
which is associated with the menu item, or a partial string which
uniquely identifies the token for the menu item. Enter ? to
reprint the menu.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed), \fBq\fR is returned along with
the return code \fB3\fR.
