'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CKKEYWD 1 "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
ckkeywd \- prompts for and validates a keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBckkeywd\fR [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-W\fR \fIwidth\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhelp\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIerror\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIprompt\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIpid\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsignal\fR]] \fIkeyword\fR [...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBckkeywd\fR prompts a user and validates the response. It defines, among
other things, a prompt message whose response should be one  of a list of
keywords, text for help and error messages, and a default value (which will be
returned if the user responds with a carriage return).  The answer returned
from this command must match one of the defined list of keywords.
.sp
.LP
All messages are limited in length to 70 characters and are formatted
automatically. Any white space used in the definition (including newline) is
stripped.  The \fB-W\fR option cancels the automatic formatting. When a tilde
is placed at the beginning or end of a message definition, the default text
will be inserted at that point, allowing both custom text and the default text
to be displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the prompt, help or error message is not defined, the default message (as
defined under \fBNOTES\fR) will be displayed.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI default\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Defines the default value as \fIdefault\fR. The default is not validated and so
does not have to meet any criteria.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fI error\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Defines the error message as \fI error\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fI help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Defines the help messages as \fI help\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fI pid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies that process  \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR is to be sent a signal if the user
chooses to abort.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI prompt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Defines the prompt message as \fIprompt\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies that quit will not be allowed as a valid response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI signal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies that the process  \fBID\fR \fIpid\fR defined with the \fB-k\fR option
is to be sent signal \fI signal\fR when quit is chosen. If no signal is
specified, \fBSIGTERM\fR is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-W\fR\fI width\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies that prompt, help and error messages will be formatted to a line
length of \fIwidth\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIkeyword\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Defines the keyword, or list of keywords, against which the answer will be
verified.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful execution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBEOF\fR on input, or negative width on \fB-W\fR option, or no keywords from
which to choose, or usage error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
User termination (quit).
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default prompt for \fBckkeywd\fR is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Enter appropriate value [\fIkeyword\fR,[\|.\|.\|.\|],?,q]:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default error message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ERROR: Please enter one of the following keywords: \fIkeyword\fR,[\|.\|.\|.\|],q
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The default help message is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIkeyword\fR\fB,[\|.\|.\|.\|],q\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When the quit option is chosen (and allowed), \fBq\fR is returned along with
the return code \fB3\fR.
