'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CLEAR 1 "Jul 12, 2002"
.SH NAME
clear \- clear the terminal screen
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBclear\fR [\fIterm\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBclear\fR utility clears the terminal screen if this is possible. It
looks in the environment for the terminal type, if this is not already
specified by the \fIterm\fR operand, and then looks up the terminfo database to
figure out how to clear the screen.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIterm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Indicates the type of terminal. Normally, this operand is unnecessary because
the default is taken from the environment variable \fBTERM\fR.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtput\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
