.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2013 Joyent, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH COLUMN 1 "Jan 10, 2013"
.SH NAME
column \- columnate lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcolumn\fR [\fB-tx\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcolumns\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR] [\fIfile\fR ... ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcolumn\fR
utility formats its input into multiple columns.
Rows are filled before columns.
Input is taken from
\fIfile\fR
operands, or, by default, from the standard input.
Empty lines are ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The options are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcolumns\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Output is formatted for a display \fIcolumns\fR
wide.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specify a set of characters to be used to delimit columns for the
\fB-t\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Determine the number of columns the input contains and create a table.
Columns are delimited with whitespace, by default, or with the characters
supplied using the \fBs\fR
option.
Useful for pretty-printing displays.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-x\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Fill columns before filling rows.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The COLUMNS , LANG , LC_ALL
and
LC_CTYPE
environment variables affect the execution of
\fBcolumn\fR
as described in
\fBenviron\fR(5).

.SH EXIT STATUS
The \fBcolumn\fR utility exits 0 on success and >0 if an error occurs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.in +2
.nf
(printf \&"PERM LINKS OWNER GROUP SIZE MONTH DAY \&"\ \&;\ \&\e
printf \&"HH:MM/YEAR NAME\en\&"\ \&;\ \&\e
ls -l \&| sed 1d) \&| column -t
.fi
.in -2
.sp


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBls\fR(1), \fBpaste\fR(1), \fBsort\fR(1)

.SH HISTORY
The \fBcolumn\fR command appeared in 4.3BSD-Reno.

.SH BUGS
Input lines are limited to LINE_MAX bytes in length.
