.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH COMM 1 "Mar 3, 2004"
.SH NAME
comm \- select or reject lines common to two files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcomm\fR [\fB-123\fR] \fIfile1\fR \fIfile2\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcomm\fR utility reads \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR, which must be ordered
in the current collating sequence, and produces three text columns as output:
lines only in \fIfile1\fR; lines only in \fIfile2\fR; and lines in both files.
.sp
.LP
If the input files were ordered according to the collating sequence of the
current locale, the lines written will be in the collating sequence of the
original lines. If not, the results are unspecified.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Suppresses the output column of lines unique to \fIfile1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Suppresses the output column of lines unique to \fIfile2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Suppresses the output column of lines duplicated in \fIfile1\fR and
\fIfile2\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
A path name of the first file to be compared. If \fIfile1\fR is \fB\(mi\fR, the
standard input is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
A path name of the second file to be compared. If \fIfile2\fR is \fB\(mi\fR,
the standard input is used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBcomm\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRPrinting a list of utilities specified by files
.sp
.LP
If \fIfile1\fR, \fIfile2\fR, and \fIfile3\fR each contain a sorted list of
utilities, the command

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcomm -23 file1 file2  | comm -23 - file3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints a list of utilities in \fIfile1\fR not specified by either of the other
files. The entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcomm -12 file1 file2 | comm -12 - file3\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints a list of utilities specified by all three files. And the entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcomm -12  file2 file3 | comm -23 -file1\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints a list of utilities specified by both \fIfile2\fR and \fIfile3\fR, but
not specified in \fIfile1\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBcomm\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All input files were successfully output as specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcmp\fR(1), \fBdiff\fR(1), \fBsort\fR(1), \fBuniq\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
