.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 Gary Mills
.\"
.TH CPIO 1 "Aug 3, 2009"
.SH NAME
cpio \- copy file archives in and out
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcpio\fR \fB-i\fR [\fB-bBcdfkmPqrsStuvV6@/\fR] [\fB-C\fR \fIbufsize\fR] [\fB-E\fR \fIfile\fR]
     [\fB-H\fR \fIheader\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fI\fR [\fB-M\fR \fImessage\fR]] [\fB-R\fR \fIid\fR] [\fIpattern\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcpio\fR \fB-o\fR [\fB-aABcLPqvV@/\fR] [\fB-C\fR \fIbufsize\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIheader\fR]
     [\fB-O\fR \fIfile\fR [\fB-M\fR \fImessage\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcpio\fR \fB-p\fR [\fB-adlLmPquvV@/\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fIid\fR] \fIdirectory\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcpio\fR command copies files into and out of a \fBcpio\fR archive. The
\fBcpio\fR archive can span multiple volumes. The \fB-i\fR, \fB-o\fR, and
\fB-p\fR options select the action to be performed. The following list
describes each of the actions. These actions are mutually exclusive.
.SS "Copy In Mode"
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR \fB-i\fR (copy in) extracts files from the standard input, which is
assumed to be the product of a previous \fBcpio\fR \fB-o\fR command. Only files
with names that match one of the \fIpattern\fRs are selected. See \fBsh\fR(1)
and OPERANDS for more information about \fIpattern\fR. Extracted files are
conditionally copied into the current directory tree, based on the options
described below. The permissions of the files are those of the previous \fBcpio
-o\fR command. The owner and group are the same as the current user, unless the
current user has the \fB{PRIV_FILE_CHOWN_SELF}\fR privilege. See
\fBchown\fR(2). If this is the case, owner and group are the same as those
resulting from the previous \fBcpio -o\fR command. Notice that if \fBcpio\fR
\fB-i\fR tries to create a file that already exists and the existing file is
the same age or younger (\fBnewer\fR), \fBcpio\fR outputs a warning message and
not replace the file. The \fB-u\fR option can be used to unconditionally
overwrite the existing file.
.SS "Copy Out Mode"
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR \fB-o\fR (copy out) reads a list of file path names from the
standard input and copies those files to the standard output, together with
path name and status information in the form of a \fBcpio\fR archive. Output is
padded to an 8192-byte boundary by default or to the user-specified block size
(with the \fB-B\fR or \fB-C\fR options) or to some device-dependent block size
where necessary (as with the CTC tape).
.SS "Pass Mode"
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR \fB-p\fR (pass) reads a list of file path names from the standard
input and conditionally copies those files into the destination directory tree,
based on the options described below.
.sp
.LP
If the underlying file system of the source file supports detection of holes as
reported by \fBpathconf\fR(2), the file is a sparse file, and the destination
file is seekable, then holes in sparse files are preserved in pass mode,
otherwise holes are filled with zeros.
.sp
.LP
\fBcpio\fR assumes four-byte words.
.sp
.LP
If, when writing to a character device (\fB-o\fR) or reading from a character
device (\fB-i\fR), \fBcpio\fR reaches the end of a medium (such as the end of a
diskette), and the \fB-O\fR and \fB-I\fR options are not used, \fBcpio\fR
prints the following message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
To continue, type device/file name when ready.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To continue, you must replace the medium and type the character special device
name (\fB/dev/rdiskette\fR for example) and press RETURN. You might want to
continue by directing \fBcpio\fR to use a different device. For example, if you
have two floppy drives you might want to switch between them so \fBcpio\fR can
proceed while you are changing the floppies. Press RETURN to cause the
\fBcpio\fR process to exit.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
(copy in) Reads an archive from the standard input and conditionally extracts
the files contained in it and places them into the current directory tree.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
(copy out) Reads a list of file path names from the standard input and copies
those files to the standard output in the form of a \fBcpio\fR archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
(pass) Reads a list of file path names from the standard input and
conditionally copies those files into the destination directory tree.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options can be appended in any sequence to the \fB-i\fR,
\fB-o\fR, or \fB-p\fR options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Resets access times of input files after they have been copied, making
\fBcpio\fR's access invisible. Access times are not reset for linked files when
\fBcpio\fR \fB-pla\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Appends files to an archive. The \fB-A\fR option requires the \fB-O\fR option.
Valid only with archives that are files, or that are on floppy diskettes or
hard disk partitions. The effect on files that are linked in the existing
portion of the archive is unpredictable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Reverses the order of the bytes within each word. Use only with the \fB-i\fR
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Blocks input/output 5120 bytes to the record. The default buffer size is 8192
bytes when this and the \fB-C\fR options are not used. \fB-B\fR does not apply
to the \fB-p\fR (pass) option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Reads or writes header information in \fBASCII\fR character form for
portability. There are no \fBUID\fR or \fBGID\fR restrictions associated with
this header format. Use this option between SVR4-based machines, or the
\fB-H\fR \fBodc\fR option between unknown machines. The \fB-c\fR option implies
the use of expanded device numbers, which are only supported on SVR4-based
systems. When transferring files between SunOS 4 or Interactive UNIX and the
Solaris 2.6 Operating environment or compatible versions, use \fB-H\fR
\fBodc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR \fIbufsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Blocks input/output \fIbufsize\fR bytes to the record, where \fIbufsize\fR is
replaced by a positive integer. The default buffer size is 8192 bytes when this
and \fB-B\fR options are not used. \fB-C\fR does not apply to the \fB-p\fR
(pass) option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Creates directories as needed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specifies an input file (\fIfile\fR) that contains a list of filenames to be
extracted from the archive (one filename per line).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Copies in all files except those in \fIpattern\fRs. See OPERANDS for a
description of \fIpattern\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR \fIheader\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Reads or writes header information in \fIheader\fR format. Always use this
option or the \fB-c\fR option when the origin and the destination machines are
different types. This option is mutually exclusive with options \fB-c\fR and
\fB-6\fR.
.sp
Valid values for \fIheader\fR are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
\fBbar\fR head and format. Used only with the \fB-i\fR option ( read only).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcrc\fR | \fBCRC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
\fBASCII\fR header with expanded device numbers and an additional per-file
checksum. There are no \fBUID\fR or \fBGID\fR restrictions associated with this
header format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBodc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
\fBASCII\fR header with small device numbers. This is the IEEE/P1003 Data
Interchange Standard cpio header and format. It has the widest range of
portability of any of the header formats. It is the official format for
transferring files between POSIX-conforming systems (see \fBstandards\fR(5)).
Use this format to communicate with SunOS 4 and Interactive UNIX. This header
format allows \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to 262143 to be stored in the
header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtar\fR | \fBTAR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
\fBtar\fR header and format. This is an older \fBtar\fR header format that
allows \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to 2097151 to be stored in the header. It
is provided for the reading of legacy archives only, that is, in conjunction
with option \fB-i\fR.
.sp
Specifying this archive format with option \fB-o\fR has the same effect as
specifying the "ustar" format: the output archive is in \fBustar\fR format, and
must be read using \fB-H\fR \fBustar\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBustar\fR | \fBUSTAR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
IEEE/P1003 Data Interchange Standard tar header and format. This header format
allows \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to 2097151 to be stored in the header.
.RE

Files with \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs greater than the limit stated above are
archived with the \fBUID\fR and \fBGID\fR of \fB60001\fR. To transfer a large
file (8 Gb \(em 1 byte), the header format can be \fBtar|TAR\fR,
\fBustar|USTAR\fR, or \fBodc\fR only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Reads the contents of \fIfile\fR as an input archive, instead of the standard
input. If \fIfile\fR is a character special device, and the current medium has
been completely read, replace the medium and press RETURN to continue to the
next medium. This option is used only with the \fB-i\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Attempts to skip corrupted file headers and I/O errors that might be
encountered. If you want to copy files from a medium that is corrupted or out
of sequence, this option lets you read only those files with good headers. For
\fBcpio\fR archives that contain other \fBcpio\fR archives, if an error is
encountered, \fBcpio\fR can terminate prematurely. \fBcpio\fR finds the next
good header, which can be one for a smaller archive, and terminate when the
smaller archive's trailer is encountered. Use only with the \fB-i\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
In pass mode, makes hard links between the source and destination whenever
possible. If the \fB-L\fR option is also specified, the hard link is to the
file referred to by the symbolic link. Otherwise, the hard link is to the
symbolic link itself. Use only with the \fB-p\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Follows symbolic links. If a symbolic link to a directory is encountered,
archives the directory referred to by the link, using the name of the link.
Otherwise, archives the file referred to by the link, using the name of the
link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Retains previous file modification time. This option is ineffective on
directories that are being copied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fImessage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Defines a \fImessage\fR to use when switching media. When you use the \fB-O\fR
or \fB-I\fR options and specify a character special device, you can use this
option to define the message that is printed when you reach the end of the
medium. One \fB%d\fR can be placed in \fImessage\fR to print the sequence
number of the next medium needed to continue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Directs the output of \fBcpio\fR to \fIfile\fR, instead of the standard output.
If \fIfile\fR is a character special device and the current medium is full,
replace the medium and type a carriage return to continue to the next medium.
Use only with the \fB-o\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Preserves \fBACL\fRs. If the option is used for output, existing \fBACL\fRs are
written along with other attributes, except for extended attributes, to the
standard output. \fBACL\fRs are created as special files with a special file
type. If the option is used for input, existing \fBACL\fRs are extracted along
with other attributes from standard input. The option recognizes the special
file type. Notice that errors occurs if a \fBcpio\fR archive with \fBACL\fRs is
extracted by previous versions of \fBcpio\fR. This option should not be used
with the \fB-c\fR option, as \fBACL\fR support might not be present on all
systems, and hence is not portable. Use \fBASCII\fR headers for portability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Quiet. Suppresses the number of blocks message that normally is printed
after the copy is completed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Interactively renames files. If the user types a carriage return alone, the
file is skipped. If the user types a ``.'', the original pathname is retained.
Not available with \fBcpio\fR \fB-p\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Reassigns ownership and group information for each file to user ID. (ID must be
a valid login ID from the \fBpasswd\fR database.) This option is valid only
when id is the invoking user or the super-user. See \fBNOTES\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Swaps bytes within each half word.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Swaps halfwords within each word.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Prints a table of contents of the input. If any file in the table of contents
has extended attributes, these are also listed. No files are created. \fB-t\fR
and \fB-V\fR are mutually exclusive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Copies unconditionally. Normally, an older file is not replaced a newer file
with the same name, although an older directory updates a newer directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Verbose. Prints a list of file and extended attribute names. When used with the
\fB-t\fR option, the table of contents looks like the output of an \fBls\fR
\fB-l\fR command (see \fBls\fR(1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Special verbose. Prints a dot for each file read or written. Useful to assure
the user that \fBcpio\fR is working without printing out all file names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Processes a UNIX System Sixth Edition archive format file. Use only with the
\fB-i\fR option. This option is mutually exclusive with \fB-c\fR and \fB-H\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-@\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Includes extended attributes in archive. By default, \fBcpio\fR does not place
extended attributes in the archive. With this flag, \fBcpio\fR looks for
extended attributes on the files to be placed in the archive and add them, as
regular files, to the archive. The extended attribute files go in the archive
as special files with special file types. When the \fB-@\fR flag is used with
\fB-i\fR or \fB-p\fR, it instructs \fBcpio\fR to restore extended attribute
data along with the normal file data. Extended attribute files can only be
extracted from an archive as part of a normal file extract. Attempts to
explicitly extract attribute records are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-/\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Includes extended system attributes in archive. By default, \fBcpio\fR does not
place extended system attributes in the archive. With this flag, \fBcpio\fR
looks for extended system attributes on the files to be placed in the archive
and add them, as regular files, to the archive. The extended attribute files go
in the archive as special files with special file types. When the \fB-/\fR flag
is used with \fB-i\fR or \fB-p\fR, it instructs \fBcpio\fR to restore extended
system attribute data along with the normal file data. Extended system
attribute files can only be extracted from an archive as part of a normal file
extract. Attempts to explicitly extract attribute records are ignored.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A path name of an existing directory to be used as the target of \fBcpio\fR
\fB-p\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Expressions making use of a pattern-matching notation similar to that used by
the shell (see \fBsh\fR(1)) for filename pattern matching, and similar to
regular expressions. The following metacharacters are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Matches any string, including the empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Matches any single character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB[...]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Matches any one of the enclosed characters. A pair of characters separated by
`\(mi' matches any symbol between the pair (inclusive), as defined by the
system default collating sequence. If the first character following the opening
\fB`['\fR is a \fB`!'\fR, the results are unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The ! (exclamation point) means \fInot\fR. For example, the \fB!abc*\fR pattern
would exclude all files that begin with \fBabc\fR.
.RE

In \fIpattern\fR, metacharacters \fB?\fR, \fB*\fR, and \fB[\fR\|.\|.\|.\fB]\fR
match the slash (\fB/\fR) character, and backslash (\fB\e\fR) is an escape
character. Multiple cases of \fIpattern\fR can be specified and if no
\fIpattern\fR is specified, the default for \fIpattern\fR is \fB*\fR (that is,
select all files).
.sp
Each pattern must be enclosed in double quotes. Otherwise, the name of a file
in the current directory might be used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBcpio\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following examples show three uses of \fBcpio\fR.
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing standard input
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls | cpio -oc > ../newfile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When standard input is directed through a pipe to \fBcpio\fR \fB-o\fR, as in
the example above, it groups the files so they can be directed (>) to a single
file (\fB\&../newfile\fR). The \fB-c\fR option insures that the file is
portable to other machines (as would the \fB-H\fR option). Instead of
\fBls\fR(1), you could use \fBfind\fR(1), \fBecho\fR(1), \fBcat\fR(1), and so
on, to pipe a list of names to \fBcpio\fR. You could direct the output to a
device instead of a file.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRExtracting files into directories
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcat newfile | cpio -icd "memo/a1" "memo/b*"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, \fBcpio\fR \fB-i\fR uses the output file of \fBcpio\fR
\fB-o\fR (directed through a pipe with \fBcat\fR), extracts those files that
match the patterns (\fBmemo/a1\fR, \fBmemo/b*\fR), creates directories below
the current directory as needed (\fB-d\fR option), and places the files in the
appropriate directories. The \fB-c\fR option is used if the input file was
created with a portable header. If no patterns were given, all files from
\fBnewfile\fR would be placed in the directory.

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRCopying or linking files to another directory
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBfind . -depth -print | cpio -pdlmv newdir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, \fBcpio\fR \fB-p\fR takes the file names piped to it and
copies or links (\fB-l\fR option) those files to another directory,
\fBnewdir\fR. The \fB-d\fR option says to create directories as needed. The
\fB-m\fR option says to retain the modification time. (It is important to use
the \fB-depth\fR option of \fBfind\fR(1) to generate path names for \fBcpio\fR.
This eliminates problems that \fBcpio\fR could have trying to create files
under read-only directories.) The destination directory, \fBnewdir\fR, must
exist.

.sp
.LP
Notice that when you use \fBcpio\fR in conjunction with \fBfind\fR, if you use
the \fB-L\fR option with \fBcpio\fR, you must use the \fB-follow\fR option with
\fBfind\fR and vice versa. Otherwise, there are undesirable results.
.sp
.LP
For multi-reel archives, dismount the old volume, mount the new one, and
continue to the next tape by typing the name of the next device (probably the
same as the first reel). To stop, type a RETURN and \fBcpio\fR ends.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBcpio\fR: \fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR,
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR, \fBTZ\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTMPDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fBcpio\fR creates its temporary file in \fB/var/tmp\fR by default. Otherwise,
it uses the directory specified by \fBTMPDIR\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBcat\fR(1), \fBecho\fR(1), \fBfind\fR(1), \fBls\fR(1),
\fBpax\fR(1), \fBsetfacl\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBtar\fR(1), \fBchown\fR(2),
\fBarchives.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBfsattr\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The maximum path name length allowed in a \fBcpio\fR archive is determined by
the header type involved. The following table shows the proper value for each
supported archive header type.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
Header type	Command line options	Maximum path name length
BINARY	"\fB-o\fR"	256
POSIX	"\fB-oH\fR odc"	256
ASCII	"\fB-oc\fR"	1023
CRC	"\fB-oH\fR crc"	1023
USTAR	"\fB-oH\fR ustar"	255
.TE

.sp
.LP
When the command line options "\fB-o\fR \fB-H\fR \fBtar\fR" are specified, the
archive created is of type \fBUSTAR\fR. This means that it is an error to read
this same archive using the command line options "\fB-i\fR \fB-H\fR \fBtar\fR".
The archive should be read using the command line options "\fB-i\fR \fB-H\fR
\fBustar\fR". The options "\fB-i\fR \fB-H\fR \fBtar\fR" refer to an older tar
archive format.
.sp
.LP
An error message is output for files whose \fBUID\fR or \fBGID\fR are too large
to fit in the selected header format. Use \fB-H\fR \fBcrc\fR or \fB-c\fR to
create archives that allow all \fBUID\fR or \fBGID\fR values.
.sp
.LP
Only the super-user can copy special files.
.sp
.LP
Blocks are reported in 512-byte quantities.
.sp
.LP
If a file has \fB000\fR permissions, contains more than 0 characters of data,
and the user is not root, the file is not saved or restored.
.sp
.LP
When cpio is invoked in \fBCopy In\fR or \fBPass Mode\fR by a user with
\fB{PRIV_FILE_CHOWN_SELF}\fR privilege, and in particular on a system where
\fB{_POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED}\fR is not in effect (effectively granting this
privilege to all users where not overridden), extracted or copied files can end
up with owners and groups determined by those of the original archived files,
which can differ from the invoking user's. This might not be what the user
intended. The \fB-R\fR option can be used to retain file ownership, if desired,
if you specify the user's id.
.sp
.LP
The inode number stored in the header (\fB/usr/include/archives.h\fR) is an
unsigned short, which is 2 bytes. This limits the range of inode numbers from
\fB0\fR to \fB65535\fR. Files which are hard linked must fall in this inode
range. This could be a problem when moving \fBcpio\fR archives between
different vendors' machines.
.sp
.LP
You must use the same blocking factor when you retrieve or copy files from the
tape to the hard disk as you did when you copied files from the hard disk to
the tape. Therefore, you must specify the \fB-B\fR or \fB-C\fR option.
.sp
.LP
During \fB-p\fR and \fB-o\fR processing, \fBcpio\fR buffers the file list
presented on stdin in a temporary file.
.sp
.LP
The new \fBpax\fR(1) format, with a command that supports it (for example,
\fBtar\fR), should be used for large files. The \fBcpio\fR command is no longer
part of the current POSIX standard and is deprecated in favor of \fBpax\fR.
