'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CTSTAT 1 "Jun 16, 2009"
.SH NAME
ctstat \- display active system contracts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ctstat\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIcontractid...\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype...\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
     [\fB-T\fR u | d ] [\fIinterval\fR [\fIcount\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBctstat\fR utility allows a user to observe the contracts active on a
system.
.sp
.LP
Unless you specify the \fB-i\fR or \fB-t\fR option, \fBctstat\fR displays
statistics on all contracts in the system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display all contracts regardless of state. By default, only those contracts
which are in the owned, inherited, or orphan states are displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIcontractid\fR...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request status on the specified contracts, identified by their numeric contract
identifier (\fIcontract_id\fR).
.sp
This option accepts lists as arguments . Items in the list can be separated by
commas, or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fBu\fR | \fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a time stamp.
.sp
Specify \fBu\fR for a printed representation of the internal representation of
time. See \fBtime\fR(2). Specify \fBd\fR for standard date format. See
\fBdate\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItype\fR...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request status on contracts of the specified type (\fItype\fR).
.sp
This option accepts lists as arguments. Items in the list can be separated by
commas, or enclosed in quotes and separated by commas or spaces.
.sp
The following types are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprocess\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Process contracts
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verbose output.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinterval\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Report once each \fIinterval\fR seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print only \fIcount\fR reports.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
The following list defines the column headings and the meanings of a
\fBctstat\fR report:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCTID\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract \fBID\fR of the contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBZONEID\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The zone ID of the contract's creator.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTYPE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSTATE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the contract:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBowned\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contract is owned by a process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinherited\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract owner has exited abnormally and the contract has been inherited by
the owner's process contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBorphan\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract owner has abandoned the contract, the contract owner exited
abnormally and the contract was not inherited by the owner's process contract,
or the process contract which had inherited the contract was abandoned by its
owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdead\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The contract is no longer active. It is removed from the system automatically
when all references to it (open file descriptors, contract templates, and
events) have been released.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBHOLDER\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If the contract is in the \fBowned\fR state, the pid of the process that owns
the contract. If the contract is in the \fBinherited\fR state, the id of the
regent process contract.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBEVENTS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The number of unacknowledged critical events pending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBQTIME\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The time until quantum ends, or \fB-\fR if no negotiation is in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBNTIME\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The time until negotiation ends, or \fB-\fR if no negotiation is in progress.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRReporting on all Contracts in the System
.sp
.LP
The following example reports on all contracts in the system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ctstat -a

CTID    TYPE    STATE   HOLDER  EVENTS  QTIME   NTIME
1       process owned   100579  0       -       -
2       process dead    -       1       -       -
3       process inherit 1       3       -       -
4       process orphan  -       0       -       -
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRObtaining a Verbose Report of All Contracts in the System
.sp
.LP
The following example obtains a verbose report of all contracts in the system:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ctstat -av

CTID    TYPE    STATE   HOLDER  EVENTS  QTIME   NTIME
1       process owned   100579  0       -       -
        informative event set: none
        critical event set:    hwerr core
        fatal event set:       hwerr
        parameter set:         none
        member processes:      100600 100601
        inherited ctids:       none
        service fmri:          svc:/system/init:default
        svc_fmri ctid:         1
        creator:               sched
        aux:

2       process dead    -       1       -       -
        informative event set: none
        critical event set:    none
        fatal event set:       hwerr core
        parameter set:         pgrponly
        member processes:      none
        inherited ctids:       none
        service fmri:          svc:/system/power:default
        svc_fmri ctid:         19
        creator:               svc.startd
        aux:                   start
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid arguments.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fB/system/contract/*\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The human readable output is Uncommitted. The invocation is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBctrun\fR(1), \fBctwatch\fR(1), \fBcontract\fR(4), \fBprocess\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
