.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH CUT 1 "Apr 29, 1999"
.SH NAME
cut \- cut out selected fields of each line of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcut\fR \fB-b\fR \fIlist\fR [\fB-n\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcut\fR \fB-c\fR \fIlist\fR [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBcut\fR \fB-f\fR \fIlist\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdelim\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBcut\fR utility to cut out columns from a table or fields from each
line of a file; in data base parlance, it implements the projection of a
relation. The fields as specified by \fIlist\fR can be fixed length, that is,
character positions as on a punched card (\fB-c\fR option) or the length can
vary from line to line and be marked with a field delimiter character like TAB
(\fB-f\fR option). \fBcut\fR can be used as a filter.
.sp
.LP
Either the \fB-b\fR, \fB-c\fR, or \fB-f\fR option must be specified.
.sp
.LP
Use \fBgrep\fR(1) to make horizontal ``cuts'' (by context) through a file, or
\fBpaste\fR(1) to put files together column-wise (that is, horizontally). To
reorder columns in a table, use \fBcut\fR and \fBpaste\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlist\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A comma-separated or blank-character-separated list of integer field numbers
(in increasing order), with optional \fB\(mi\fR to indicate ranges (for
instance, \fB1,4,7\fR; \fB1\(mi3,8\fR; \fB\(mi5,10\fR (short for
\fB1\(mi5,10\fR); or \fB3\(mi\fR (short for third through last field)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-b\fR \fIlist\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fIlist\fR following \fB-b\fR specifies byte positions (for instance,
\fB-b1\fR\fB-72\fR would pass the first 72 bytes of each line). When \fB-b\fR
and \fB-n\fR are used together, \fIlist\fR is adjusted so that no multi-byte
character is split.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-c\fR \fIlist\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fIlist\fR following \fB-c\fR specifies character positions (for instance,
\fB-c1\fR\fB-72\fR would pass the first 72 characters of each line).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-d\fR \fIdelim\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The character following \fB-d\fR is the field delimiter (\fB-f\fR option only).
Default is \fItab\fR. Space or other characters with special meaning to the
shell must be quoted. \fIdelim\fR can be a multi-byte character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-f\fR \fIlist\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fIlist\fR following \fB-f\fR is a list of fields assumed to be separated
in the file by a delimiter character (see \fB-d\fR ); for instance,
\fB-f1\fR\fB,7\fR copies the first and seventh field only. Lines with no field
delimiters will be passed through intact (useful for table subheadings), unless
\fB-s\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Do not split characters. When \fB-b\fR \fIlist\fR and \fB-n\fR are used
together, \fIlist\fR is adjusted so that no multi-byte character is split.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Suppresses lines with no delimiter characters in case of \fB-f\fR option.
Unless specified, lines with no delimiters will be passed through untouched.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
A path name of an input file. If no \fIfile\fR operands are specified, or if a
\fIfile\fR operand is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input will be used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBcut\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRMapping user IDs
.sp
.LP
A mapping of user \fBIDs\fR to names follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBcut -d: -f1,5 /etc/passwd\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSetting current login name
.sp
.LP
To set \fBname\fR to current login name:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBname=\(gawho am i | cut -f1 -d' '\(ga\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBcut\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
All input files were output successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgrep\fR(1), \fBpaste\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: \fR\fB-n\fR\fB may only be used with \fR\fB-b\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: \fR\fB-d\fR\fB may only be used with \fR\fB-f\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: \fR\fB-s\fR\fB may only be used with \fR\fB-f\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: cannot open \fR\fI<file>\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Either \fIfile\fR cannot be read or does not exist.  If multiple files are
present, processing continues.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: no delimiter specified\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Missing \fIdelim\fR on \fB-d\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: invalid delimiter\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: no \fIlist\fR\fR\fB specified\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Missing \fIlist\fR on \fB-b\fR, \fB-c\fR, or \fB-f\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: invalid range specifier\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: too many ranges specified\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: range must be increasing\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: invalid character in range\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: internal error processing input\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: invalid multibyte character\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcut: unable to allocate enough memory\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

