.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" Copyright 2020 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March  3, 2020
.Dt DEMANGLE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm demangle
.Nd demangle symbols
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Oo
.Fl l
.Ar lang
.Oc
.Op Ar symbol Ns ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility attempts to detect mangled symbols and transform them back into a
more human friendly version of the symbol.
.Pp
Some languages allow the same identifier to refer to multiple things
(functions, variables, etc\&.) where some additional context such as
parameter types, return types, etc\&. are used to disambiguate between the
symbols sharing the same name.
When compiling such languages into an executable form, most binary formats
do not allow for duplicate symbol names or provide a way to disambiguate
between duplicate names.
.Pp
To solve this problem, many languages will use the additional context from
the source code to transform the symbol name into a unique name.
This process is called name mangling.
While the resulting name is predictable, the mangled names are often difficult
for humans to interpret.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility can be invoked in one of two ways.
In the first method,
.Ar symbol
is demangled and the result is written to standard out, one line per input
.Ar symbol .
If any input
.Ar symbol
cannot be demangled, the original value of
.Ar symbol
is output unchanged.
In the second method,
.Nm
reads standard in, and whenever it encounters a potential symbol, it will
attempt to replace the symbol in stdandard out with the demangled version.
If the symbol cannot be demangled, it is output unchanged.
.Pp
For either method, if an error other than attempting to demangle an non-mangled
symbol (e.g. out of memory), that error will be written to standard error.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl l Ar lang
Treat all potential symbols as symbols from
.Ar lang .
By default,
.Nm
will attempt to detect the language and demangle symbols for all supported
languages.
Current supported values of
.Ar lang
are:
.Bl -tag -width rust -offset indent
.It c++
The C++ mangling format defined by the Itanium ABI.
While the mangling format was originally defined for the Itanium processor, g++
and clang use this format for all their supported platforms (including x86 and
SPARC).
.It rust
The legacy rust mangling format.
.It auto
Attempt to detect the language automatically (default).
.El
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Demangle symbols given as command line arguments.
.Bd -literal
% demangle '_ZGVN9__gnu_cxx16bitmap_allocatorIwE13_S_mem_blocksE'
guard variable for __gnu_cxx::bitmap_allocator<wchar_t>::_S_mem_blocks
%
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 2
Demangle symbols from the output of another command.
.Bd -literal
% grep slice rust.c | head -1
    T("__ZN4core5slice89_$LT$impl$u20$core..iter..traits..IntoIterator$u20$for$u20$$RF$$u27$a$u20$$u5b$T$u5d$$GT$9into_iter17h450e234d27262170E",
% grep slice rust.c | head -1 | demangle
    T("core::slice::<impl core::iter::traits::IntoIterator for &'a [T]>::into_iter::h450e234d27262170",
%
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line options are
.Sy Uncommitted .
The output format is
.Sy Not-an-Interface .
