'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992-1996 Competitive Automation, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DHCPINFO 1 "May 15, 2009"
.SH NAME
dhcpinfo \- display values of parameters received through DHCP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpinfo\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIlimit\fR] [\fB-v 4|6\fR] \fIcode\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBdhcpinfo\fR [\fB-c\fR] [\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fIlimit\fR] [\fB-v 4|6\fR] \fIidentifier\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdhcpinfo\fR utility prints the \fBDHCP\fR-supplied value(s) of the
parameter requested on the command line. The parameter can be identified either
by its numeric code in the \fBDHCP\fR specification, or by its mnemonic
identifier, as listed in \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4). This command is intended to be
used in command substitutions in the shell scripts invoked by \fBinit\fR(1M) at
system boot. It first contacts the \fBDHCP\fR client daemon at system boot or
in event scripts as described in \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M). It first contacts the
DHCP client daemon \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M) to verify that \fBDHCP\fR has
successfully completed on the requested interface. If \fBDHCP\fR has
successfully completed on the requested interface, \fBdhcpinfo\fR retrieves the
values for the requested parameter. Parameter values echoed by \fBdhcpinfo\fR
should not be used without checking its exit status. See \fBexit\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
See \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4) for the list of mnemonic identifier codes for all
\fBDHCP\fR parameters. See \fIRFC 2132, DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
Extensions\fR for more details on DHCPv4 parameters, and RFC 3315, Dynamic Host
Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6), for more details on DHCPv6
parameters.
.SS "Output Format"
.sp
.LP
The output from \fBdhcpinfo\fR consists of one or more lines of \fBASCII\fR
text; the format of the output depends upon the requested parameter. The number
of values returned per line and the total number of lines output for a given
parameter are determined by the parameter's \fBgranularity\fR and \fBmaximum\fR
values, respectively, as defined by \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
The format of each individual value is determined by the data type of the
option, as determined by \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4). The possible data types and
their formats are listed below:
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
Data Type	Format	\fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4) type
Unsigned Number	One or more decimal digits	T{
\fBUNUMBER8\fR, \fBUNUMBER16\fR, \fBUNUMBER32\fR, \fBUNUMBER64\fR
T}
Signed Number	T{
One or more decimal digits, optionally preceded by a minus sign
T}	T{
\fBSNUMBER8\fR, \fBSNUMBER16\fR, \fBSNUMBER32\fR, \fBSNUMBER64\fR
T}
\fBIP\fR Address	Dotted-decimal notation	\fBIP\fR
IPv6 Address	Colon-separated notation	\fBIPv6\fR
Octet	T{
The string \fB0x\fR followed by a two-digit hexadecimal value
T}	\fBOCTET\fR
String	Zero or more \fBASCII\fR characters	\fBASCII\fR
DUID	DHCP Unique Identifier text	\fBDUID\fR
Domain Name	T{
Standard dot-separated domain name, RFC 1035 format
T}	\fBDOMAIN\fR
.TE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Displays the output in a canonical format. This format is identical to the
\fBOCTET\fR format with a granularity of \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fIinterface\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies the interface to retrieve values for \fBDHCP\fR parameters from. If
this option is not specified, the primary interface is used.
.sp
If a primary interface has not been selected for the system by
\fBifconfig\fR(1M) or for this command by \fB-i\fR, the system automatically
selects an interface to consider as primary for the current command invocation.
The selection chooses the interface whose name sorts lexically first, and that
has DHCP parameters attached.  This selection does not affect system state. Use
\fBifconfig\fR(1M) to set a primary interface.
.sp
The recommended practice in the \fBdhcpagent\fR(1M) \fBeventhook\fR scripts is
to specify the desired interface with \fB-i\fR, rather than relying on primary
selection.
.sp
For DHCPv6, the interface name used should be the name of the physical
interface, not one of the logical interfaces created by \fBdhcpagent\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fIlimit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Limits the list of values displayed to \fIlimit\fR lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fB4 | 6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies the DHCP version to query. Use \fB-v4\fRfor DHCPv4 and \fB-v6\fR for
DHCPv6.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Numeric code for the requested \fBDHCP\fR parameter, as defined by the
\fBDHCP\fR specification. Vendor options are specified by adding \fB256\fR to
the actual vendor code for DHCPv4, and \fB65536\fR for DHCPv6.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIidentifier\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Mnemonic symbol for the requested \fBDHCP\fR parameter, as listed in
\fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The operation was not successful. The \fBDHCP\fR client daemon might not be
running, the interface might have failed to configure, or no satisfactory
\fBDHCP\fR responses were received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Bad arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The operation timed out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
System error (should never occur).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdhcpagent\fR(1M), \fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBinit\fR(1M), \fBdhcp_inittab\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Alexander, S., and R. Droms, \fIRFC 2132, DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
Extensions\fR, Silicon Graphics, Inc., Bucknell University, March 1997.
.sp
.LP
Droms, R. , \fIRFC 3315, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6
(DHCPv6)\fR, Cisco Systems, July 2003.
.sp
.LP
Mockapetris, P.V. , \fIRFC 1035, Domain names - implementation and
specification\fR, ISI, November 1987.
