.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH DIS 1 "Aug 24, 2009"
.SH NAME
dis \- object code disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdis\fR [\fB-onqCLV\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-D\fR \fIsec\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIfunction\fR]
     [\fB-l\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIsec\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdis\fR command produces an assembly language listing of \fIfile\fR,
which can be an object file or an archive of object files. The listing includes
assembly statements and an octal or hexadecimal representation of the binary
that produced those statements.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Options are interpreted by the disassembler and can be specified in any order.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Displays demangled C++ symbol names in the disassembly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIsec\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Disassembles the named section as data, printing the offset of the data from
the beginning of the section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fIsec\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Disassembles the named section as data, printing the actual address of the
data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIfunction\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Disassembles only the named function in each object file specified on the
command line. The \fB-F\fR option can be specified multiple times on the
command line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Disassembles the archive file specified by \fIstring\fR. For example, one would
issue the command \fBdis\fR \fB-l\fR \fBx\fR \fB-l\fR \fBz\fR to disassemble
\fBlibx.a\fR and \fBlibz.a\fR, which are assumed to be in \fBLIBDIR\fR.
.sp
This option is obsolete and might be removed in a future release of Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Invokes a lookup of C-language source labels in the symbol table for subsequent
writing to standard output.
.sp
This option is obsolete and might be removed in a future release of Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Displays all addresses numerically. Addresses are displayed using symbolic
names by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prints numbers in octal. The default is hexadecimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Quiet mode.  Does not print any headers or function entry labels.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIsec\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Disassembles the named section as text.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prints, on standard error, the version number of the disassembler being
executed.
.sp
This option is obsolete and might be removed in a future release of Solaris.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the \fB-d\fR, \fB-D\fR, or \fB-t\fR options are specified, only those named
sections from each user-supplied file is disassembled. Otherwise, all sections
containing text is disassembled.
.sp
.LP
On output, a number enclosed in brackets at the beginning of a line, such as
\fB[5]\fR, indicates that the break-pointable line number starts with the
following instruction. These line numbers is printed only if the file was
compiled with additional debugging information.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A path name of an object file or an archive (see \fBar\fR(1)) of object files.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBdis\fR: \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and
\fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLIBDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
If this environment variable contains a value, use this as the path to search
for the library. If the variable contains a null value, or is not set, it
defaults to searching for the library under \fB/usr/lib\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
default \fBLIBDIR\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The human readable output is Uncommitted. The command line options are
Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBas\fR(1), \fBld\fR(1), \fBa.out\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The self-explanatory diagnostics indicate errors in the command line or
problems encountered with the specified files.
