'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH DISOWN 1 "Apr 18, 2007"
.SH NAME
disown \- ksh93 built-in function to disassociate a job with the current shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdisown\fR [\fIjob ...\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBksh93\fR \fBdisown\fR command prevents the current shell from sending a
\fBHUP\fR signal to each of the specified jobs when the current shell
terminates a login session.
.sp
.LP
If \fIjob\fR is omitted, \fBdisown\fR sends the \fBHUP\fR signal to the most
recently started or stopped background job.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIjob\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Specifies the job or jobs on which disown operates.
.sp
Specify \fIjob\fR as one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to a process ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to a process group ID.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to a job number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to a job whose name begins with \fIstring\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%?\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to a job whose name contains \fIstring\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%+\fR or \fB%%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to the current job.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%-\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Refers to the previous job.
.RE

.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
One or more specified jobs does not exist.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisowning a Job
.sp
.LP
The following example disowns job 1:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% disown %1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
David Korn, \fBdgk@research.att.com\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBbg\fR(1), \fBjobs\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBwait\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
