'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DOWNLOAD 1 "May 13, 2017"
.SH NAME
download \- host resident PostScript font downloader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdownload\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIprinter\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIdirectory\fR]
     [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/download\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBdownload\fR prepends host resident fonts to \fIfiles\fR and writes the
results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are specified, or if
\fB\(mi\fR is one of the input \fIfiles\fR, the standard input is read.
\fBdownload\fR assumes the input \fIfiles\fR make up a single PostScript job
and that requested fonts can be included at the start of each input \fBfile\fR.
.sp
.LP
Requested fonts are named in a comment (marked with \fB%%DocumentFonts:\fR) in
the input \fIfiles\fR. Available fonts are the ones listed in the map table
selected using the \fB-m\fR option.
.sp
.LP
The map table consists of fontname\(mifile pairs. The fontname is the full name
of the PostScript font, exactly as it would appear in a \fB%%DocumentFonts:\fR
comment. The file is the pathname of the host resident font. A file that begins
with a \fB/\fR is used as is. Otherwise the pathname is relative to the host
font directory. Comments are introduced by % (as in PostScript) and extend to
the end of the line.
.sp
.LP
The only candidates for downloading are fonts listed in the map table that
point \fBdownload\fR to readable files. A font is downloaded once, at most.
Requests for unlisted fonts or inaccessible files are ignored. All requests are
ignored if the map table can not be read.
.SH OPTIONS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Force a complete scan of each input \fBfile\fR. In the absence of an explicit
comment pointing \fBdownload\fR to the end of the file, the default scan stops
immediately after the PostScript header comments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI printer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Check the list of printer-resident fonts in
\fB/etc/lp/printers/\fR\fIprinter\fR\fB/residentfonts\fR before downloading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Use \fIname\fR as the font map table. A \fIname\fR that begins with \fB/\fR is
the full pathname of the map table and is used as is. Otherwise \fIname\fR is
appended to the pathname of the host font directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fI directory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Use \fIdir\fR as the host font directory. The default is
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of the \fBdownload\fR command.
.sp
.LP
The following map table could be used to control the downloading of the
Bookman font family:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
%
% The first string is the full PostScript font name. The second string
% is the file name - relative to the host font directory unless it begins
% with a /.
%
    Bookman-Light               bookman/light
    Bookman-LightItalic      bookman/lightitalic
    Bookman-Demi               bookman/demi
    Bookman-DemiItalic      bookman/demiitalic
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Using the file \fBmyprinter/map\fR (in the default host font directory) as the
map table, you could download fonts by issuing the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% download \fR\fB-m\fR\fB \fImyprinter/map file\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdpost\fR(1), \fBpostio\fR(1), \fBpostprint\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBdownload\fR program should be part of a more general program.
.sp
.LP
\fBdownload\fR does not look for \fB%%PageFonts:\fR comments and there is no
way to force multiple downloads of a particular font.
.sp
.LP
Using full pathnames in either map tables or the names of map tables is not
recommended.
