'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DPOST 1 "Sep 9, 1996"
.SH NAME
dpost \- troff postprocessor for PostScript printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdpost\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR]
     [\fB-w\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIdir\fR] [\fB-H\fR \fIdir\fR]
     [\fB-L\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-O\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIname\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/dpost\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBdpost\fR translates \fIfiles\fR created by \fBtroff\fR(1) into PostScript
and writes the results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are specified,
or if \(mi is one of the input \fIfiles\fR, the standard input is read.
.sp
.LP
The \fIfiles\fR should be prepared by \fBtroff\fR. The default font files in
\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost\fR produce the best and most efficient output. They
assume a resolution of 720 dpi, and can be used to format files by adding the
\fB-Tpost\fR option to the \fBtroff\fR call. Older versions of the \fBeqn\fR
and \fBpic\fR preprocessors need to know the resolution that \fBtroff\fR will
be using to format the \fIfiles\fR. If those are the versions installed on your
system, use the \fB-r720\fR option with \fBeqn\fR and \fB-T720\fR with
\fBpic\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBdpost\fR makes no assumptions about resolutions. The first \fBx res\fR
command sets the resolution used to translate the input \fIfiles\fR, the
\fBDESC.out\fR file, usually \fB/usr/lib/font/devpost/DESC.out\fR, defines the
resolution used in the binary font files, and the PostScript prologue is
responsible for setting up an appropriate user coordinate system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fInum\fR copies of each page. By default only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Sets the text encoding level to \fInum\fR. The recognized choices are 0, 1, and
2. The size of the output file and print time should decrease as \fInum\fR
increases. Level 2 encoding will typically be about 20 percent faster than
level 0, which is the default and produces output essentially identical to
previous versions of \fBdpost\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Magnify each logical page by the factor \fInum\fR. Pages are scaled uniformly
about the origin, which is located near the upper left corner of each page. The
default magnification is  \fB1.0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fInum\fR logical pages on each piece of paper, where \fInum\fR can be
any positive integer. By default, \fInum\fR is set to  \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print those pages for which numbers are given in the comma-separated
\fIlist\fR. The list contains single numbers \fIN\fR and ranges
\fIN1\fR\fB\(mi\fR\fIN2.\fR A missing \fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered page,
a missing \fIN2\fR means the highest. The page range is an expression of
logical pages rather than physical sheets of paper. For example, if you are
printing two logical pages to a sheet, and you specified a range of \fB4\fR,
then two sheets of paper would print, containing four page layouts. If you
specified a page range of \fB 3-4\fR, when requesting two logical pages to a
sheet; then \fIonly\fR page 3 and page 4 layouts would print, and they would
appear on one physical sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI mode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fIfiles\fR in either portrait or landscape \fImode\fR. Only the first
character of \fImode\fR is significant. The default \fImode\fR is portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Set the line width used to implement \fBtroff\fR graphics commands to \fInum\fR
points, where a point is approximately 1/72 of an inch. By default, \fInum\fR
is set to  \fB0.3\fR points.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive x axis. The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed near the upper left corner of the page,
with positive x to the right and positive y down the page. Positive \fInum\fR
moves everything right. The default offset is  \fB0\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves text up the page. The default offset is  \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fI dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Use \fIdir\fR as the font directory. The default \fIdir\fR is
\fB/usr/lib/font\fR, and \fBdpost\fR reads binary font files from directory
\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fI dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Use \fIdir\fR as the host resident font directory. Files in this directory
should be complete PostScript font descriptions, and must be assigned a name
that corresponds to the appropriate two-character \fBtroff\fR font name. Each
font file is copied to the output file only when needed and at most once during
each job. There is no default directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fI file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Use \fBfile\fR as the PostScript prologue which, by default, is
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/dpost.ps\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Disables PostScript picture inclusion. A recommended option when \fBdpost\fR is
run by a spooler in a networked environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fI name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Use font files for device \fIname\fR as the best description of available
PostScript fonts. By default, \fIname\fR is set to \fBpost\fR and \fBdpost\fR
reads binary files from \fB/usr/lib/font/devpost\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of the \fBdpost\fR command.
.sp
.LP
If the old versions of \fBeqn\fR and \fBpic\fR are installed on your system,
you can obtain the best possible looking output by issuing a command line such
as the following:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpic \fR\fB-T720\fR\fB \fR\fBfile\fR\fB | tbl | eqn \fR\fB-r720\fR\fB | troff \fR\fB-mm\fR\fB \fR\fB-Tpost\fR\fB | dpost\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Otherwise,

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpic \fR\fBfile\fR\fB | tbl | eqn | troff \fR\fB-mm\fR\fB \fR\fB-Tpost\fR\fB | dpost\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
should give the best results.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost/*.out\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/font/devpost/charlib/*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/color.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/draw.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/macros/pictures\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/macros/color\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdownload\fR(1), \fBpostdaisy\fR(1), \fBpostdmd\fR(1), \fBpostio\fR(1),
\fBpostmd\fR(1), \fBpostprint\fR(1), \fBpostreverse\fR(1), \fBposttek\fR(1),
\fBtroff\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Output files often do not conform to Adobe's file structuring conventions.
Piping the output of \fBdpost\fR through \fBpostreverse\fR(1) should produce a
minimally conforming PostScript file.
.sp
.LP
Although \fBdpost\fR can handle files formatted for any device, emulation is
expensive and can easily double the print time and the size of the output file.
No attempt has been made to implement the character sets or fonts available on
all devices supported by \fBtroff\fR. Missing characters will be replaced by
white space, and unrecognized fonts will usually default to one of the Times
fonts (that is, \fBR\fR, \fBI\fR, \fBB\fR, or \fBBI\fR).
.sp
.LP
An \fBx res\fR command  must precede the first \fBx init\fR command, and all
the input \fIfiles\fR should have been prepared for the same output device.
.sp
.LP
Use of the \fB-T\fR option is not encouraged. Its only purpose is to enable the
use of other PostScript font and device description files, that perhaps use
different resolutions, character sets, or fonts.
.sp
.LP
Although level 0 encoding is the only scheme that has been thoroughly tested,
level 2 is fast and may be worth a try.
