'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH EGREP 1 "May 3, 2013"
.SH NAME
egrep \- search a file for a pattern using full regular expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/egrep\fR [\fB-bcHhilnqsv\fR] \fB-e\fR \fIpattern_list\fR [\fIfile...\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/egrep\fR [\fB-bcHhilnqsv\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR [\fIfile...\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/egrep\fR [\fB-bcHhilnqsv\fR] \fIpattern\fR [\fIfile...\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR [\fB-bcHhilnqsvx\fR] \fB-e\fR \fIpattern_list\fR [\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR]
     [\fIfile...\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR [\fB-bcHhilnqsvx\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIpattern_list\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR
     [\fIfile...\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR [\fB-bcHhilnqsvx\fR] \fIpattern\fR [\fIfile...\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBegrep\fR (\fIexpression grep\fR) utility searches files for a pattern of
characters and prints all lines that contain that pattern. \fBegrep\fR uses
full regular expressions (expressions that have string values that use the full
set of alphanumeric and special characters) to match the patterns. It uses a
fast deterministic algorithm that sometimes needs exponential space.
.sp
.LP
If no files are specified, \fBegrep\fR assumes standard input. Normally, each
line found is copied to the standard output. The file name is printed before
each line found if there is more than one input file.
.SS "/usr/bin/egrep"
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/bin/egrep\fR utility accepts full regular expressions as described
on the \fBregexp\fR(5) manual page, except for \fB\e(\fR and \fB\e)\fR,
\fB\e(\fR and \fB\e)\fR, \fB\e{\fR and \fB\e}\fR, \fB\e<\fR and \fB\e>\fR, and
\fB\en\fR, and with the addition of:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
A full regular expression followed by \fB+\fR that matches one or more
occurrences of the full regular expression.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
A full regular expression followed by \fB?\fR that matches 0 or 1
occurrences of the full regular expression.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Full regular expressions separated by | or by a \fBNEWLINE\fR that match
strings that are matched by any of the expressions.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
A full regular expression that can be enclosed in parentheses \fB()\fRfor
grouping.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Be careful using the characters \fB$\fR, \fB*\fR, \fB[\fR, \fB^\fR, |, \fB(\fR,
\fB)\fR, and \fB\e\fR in \fIfull regular expression\fR, because they are also
meaningful to the shell. It is safest to enclose the entire \fIfull regular
expression\fR in single quotes (\fBa\'\fR\fBa\'\fR).
.sp
.LP
The order of precedence of operators is \fB[\|]\fR, then \fB*\|?\|+\fR, then
concatenation, then | and NEWLINE.
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep"
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR utility uses the regular expressions described in
the \fBEXTENDED REGULAR EXPRESSIONS\fR section of the \fBregex\fR(5) manual
page.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for both \fB/usr/bin/egrep\fR and
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Precede each line by the block number on which it was found. This can be useful
in locating block numbers by context (first block is 0).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print only a count of the lines that contain the pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIpattern_list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Search for a \fIpattern_list\fR (\fIfull regular expression\fR that begins with
a \fB\(mi\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Take the list of \fIfull\fR \fIregular\fR \fIexpressions\fR from \fIfile\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Precedes each line by the name of the file containing the matching line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Suppress printing of filenames when searching multiple files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Ignore upper/lower case distinction during comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print the names of files with matching lines once, separated by NEWLINEs. Does
not repeat the names of files when the pattern is found more than once.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Precede each line by its line number in the file (first line is 1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Quiet. Does not write anything to the standard output, regardless of matching
lines. Exits with zero status if an input line is selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Legacy equivalent of \fB-q\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print all lines except those that contain the pattern.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR only:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Consider only input lines that use all characters in the line to match an
entire fixed string or regular expression to be matching lines.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A path name of a file to be searched for the patterns. If no \fIfile\fR
operands are specified, the standard input is used.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/egrep"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Specify a pattern to be used during the search for input.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Specify one or more patterns to be used during the search for input. This
operand is treated as if it were specified as \fB-e\fR\fIpattern_list.\fR.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBegrep\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBegrep\fR: \fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR,
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
If any matches are found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
If no matches are found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
For syntax errors or inaccessible files (even if matches were found).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/egrep"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Not Enabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfgrep\fR(1), \fBgrep\fR(1), \fBsed\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBregex\fR(5), \fBregexp\fR(5),
\fBXPG4\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Ideally there should be only one \fBgrep\fR command, but there is not a single
algorithm that spans a wide enough range of space-time trade-offs.
.sp
.LP
Lines are limited only by the size of the available virtual memory.
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep"
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/egrep\fR utility is identical to \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/grep\fR
\fB-E\fR. See \fBgrep\fR(1). Portable applications should use
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/grep\fR \fB-E\fR.
