'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ENV 1 "Jan 2, 2002"
.SH NAME
env \- set environment for command invocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/env\fR [\fB-i\fR | \fB-\fR] [\fIname=value\fR]... [\fIutility\fR [\fIarg\fR... ]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/env\fR [\fB-i\fR | \fB-\fR] [\fIname=value\fR]...
     [\fIutility\fR [\fIarg\fR... ]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBenv\fR utility obtains the current environment, modifies it according to
its arguments, then invokes the utility named by the \fIutility\fR operand with
the modified environment.
.sp
.LP
Optional arguments are passed to \fIutility\fR. If no \fIutility\fR operand is
specified, the resulting environment is written to the standard output, with
one \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR pair per line.
.sp
.LP
If \fBenv\fR executes commands with arguments, it uses the default shell
\fB/usr/bin/sh\fR (see \fBsh\fR(1)).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR | \fB\(mi\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Ignores the environment that would otherwise be inherited from the current
shell.  Restricts the environment for \fIutility\fR to that specified by the
arguments.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Arguments of the form \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR modify the execution
environment, and are placed into the inherited environment before \fIutility\fR
is invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIutility\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The name of the utility to be invoked.  If \fIutility\fR names any of the
special shell built-in utilities, the results are undefined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIarg\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A string to pass as an argument for the invoked utility.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRInvoking utilities with new PATH values
.sp
.LP
The following utility:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBenv -i PATH=/mybin mygrep xyz myfile \fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
invokes the utility \fBmygrep\fR with a new \fBPATH\fR value as the only entry
in its environment. In this case, \fBPATH\fR is used to locate \fBmygrep\fR,
which then must reside in \fB/mybin\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBenv\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Determine the location of the \fIutility\fR. If \fBPATH\fR is specified as a
\fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR operand to \fBenv\fR, the value given shall be used in
the search for \fIutility\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
If \fIutility\fR is invoked, the exit status of \fBenv\fR is the exit status of
\fIutility\fR. Otherwise, the \fBenv\fR utility returns one of the following
exit values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1-125\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB126\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fIutility\fR was found but could not be invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB127\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fIutility\fR could not be found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	enabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBprofile\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
