'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FILESYNC 1 "Sep 8, 2015"
.SH NAME
filesync \- synchronize ordinary, directory or special files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfilesync\fR [\fB-aehmnqvy\fR] [\fB-o\fR src | dst]
     [\fB-f\fR src | dst | old | new] [\fB-r\fR \fIdirectory\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfilesync\fR [\fB-aehmnqvy\fR] \fB-s\fR \fIsource-dir\fR \fB-d\fR \fIdest-dir\fR \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBfilesync\fR utility \fIsynchronizes\fR files between multiple computer
systems, typically a server and a portable computer. \fBfilesync\fR
synchronizes ordinary, directory or special files. Although intended for use on
nomadic systems, \fBfilesync\fR is useful for backup and file replication on
more permanently connected systems.
.sp
.LP
If files are synchronized between systems, the corresponding files on each of
the systems are \fIidentical\fR. Changing a file on one or both of the systems
causes the files to become different (not synchronized). In order to make the
files identical again, the differences between the files must be
\fIreconciled\fR. See \fBReconciling and Synchronizing Files\fR  for specific
details about how \fBfilesync\fR reconciles and synchronizes files.
.sp
.LP
There are two forms of the \fBfilesync\fR command. The first form of
\fBfilesync\fR is invoked without file arguments. This form of \fBfilesync\fR
reconciles differences between the files and systems specified in the
\fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR file. \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR is a packing rules
list for \fBfilesync\fR and contains a list of files to
be kept synchronized. See \fBpackingrules\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
The second form of \fBfilesync\fR copies specific files from a directory on the
source system to a directory on the destination system. In addition, this form
of \fBfilesync\fR adds the file or files specified as arguments
(\fIfilename\fR) to \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR. See \fB-s\fR and \fB-d\fR for
information about specifying directories on source and destination systems. See
\fBOPERANDS\fR for details about specifying file (\fIfilename\fR) arguments.
.sp
.LP
Multiple \fBfilesync\fR commands are cumulative (that is, the specified files
are added to the already existing packing rules file list). See \fBMultiple
filesync Commands\fR.
.SS "Reconciling and Synchronizing Files"
.LP
\fBfilesync\fR synchronizes files between computer systems by performing the
following two tasks:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
\fBfilesync\fR examines the directories and files specified in the packing
rules file on both systems, and determines whether or not they are identical.
Any file that differs requires reconciliation.
.sp
\fBfilesync\fR also maintains a baseline summary in the
\fB$HOME/.filesync-base\fR file for all of the files that are being monitored.
This file lists the names, types, and sizes of all files as of the last
reconciliation.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Based on the information contained in the baseline file and the specified
options (see  \fBResolving filesync Conflicts\fR), \fBfilesync\fR determines
which of the various copies is the correct one, and makes the corresponding
changes to the other system. Once this has been done, the two copies are,
again, identical (synchronized).
.sp
If a source file has changed and the destination file has not, the changes on
the source system are propagated to the destination system. If a destination
file has changed and the corresponding source file has not, the changes on the
destination file are propagated to the source system. If both systems have
changed (and the files are not still identical) a warning message will be
printed out, asking the user to resolve the conflict manually. See
\fBResolving filesync Conflicts\fR.
.RE
.SS "Resolving filesync Conflicts"
.LP
In cases where files on both sides have changed,  \fBfilesync\fR attempts to
determine which version should be chosen. If  \fBfilesync\fR cannot
automatically determine which version should be selected, it prints out a
warning message and leaves the two incompatible versions of the file
unreconciled.
.LP
In these cases, you must either resolve the differences manually, or tell
\fBfilesync\fR how to choose which file should win. Use the  \fB-o\fR and
\fB-f\fR options to tell  \fBfilesync\fR how to resolve conflicts (see
\fBOPTIONS\fR).
.LP
Alternatively, for each conflicting file, you can examine the two versions,
determine which one should be kept, and manually bring the two versions into
agreement (by copying, deleting, or changing the ownership or protection to be
correct). You can then re-run  \fBfilesync\fR to see whether or not any other
conflicts remain.
.SS "Packing Rules File"
.LP
The packing rules file \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR contains a list of files to be
kept synchronized. The syntax of this file is described in
\fBpackingrules\fR(4).
.LP
The \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR file is automatically created if users invoke
\fBfilesync\fR with filename arguments. By using \fBfilesync\fR options, users
can augment the packing rules in \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR.
.LP
Many users choose to create the packing rules file manually and edit it by
hand. Users can edit \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR (using any editor) to
permanently change the  \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR file, or to gain access to
more powerful options  that are not available from the command line (such as
\fBIGNORE\fR commands). It is much easier to enter complex wildcard expressions
by editing the \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR file.
.SS "Baseline File"
.LP
\fB$HOME/.filesync-base\fR is the \fBfilesync\fR baseline summary file.
\fBfilesync\fR uses the information in \fB$HOME/.filesync-base\fR to identify
the differences between files during the reconciliation and synchronization
process. Users do not create or edit the baseline file. It is created
automatically by \fBfilesync\fR and records the last known state of  agreement
between all of the files being maintained.
.SS "Multiple filesync Commands"
.LP
Over a period of time, the set of files you want to keep synchronized can
change. It is common, for instance, to want to keep files pertaining to only a
few active projects on your notebook. If you continue to keep files associated
with every project you have ever worked on synchronized, your notebook's disk
will fill up with old files. Each  \fBfilesync\fR command will waste a lot of
time updating files you no longer care about.
.LP
If you delete the files from your notebook, \fBfilesync\fR will want to perform
the corresponding deletes on the server, which would not be what you wanted.
Rather, you would like a way to tell \fBfilesync\fR to stop synchronizing some
of the files. There are two ways to do this:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Edit  \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR. Delete the rules for the files that you
want to delete.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Delete \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR. Use the  \fBfilesync\fR command to specify
the files that you want synchronized.
.RE
.LP
Either way works, and you can choose the one that seems easiest to you. For
minor changes, it is probably easier to just edit \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR.
For major changes it is probably easier to start from scratch.
.LP
Once  \fBfilesync\fR is no longer synchronizing a set of files, you can delete
them from your notebook without having any effect on the server.
.SS "Nomadic Machines"
.LP
When using \fBfilesync\fR to keep files synchronized between nomadic machines
and a server, store the packing rules and baseline files on the nomadic
machines, not the server. If, when logged into your notebook, the \fBHOME\fR
environment variable does not normally point to a directory on your notebook,
you can use the \fBFILESYNC\fR environment variable to specify an alternate
location for the packing rules and baseline files.
.LP
Each nomadic machine should carry its own packing rules and baseline file.
Incorrect file synchronization can result if a server carries a baseline file
and multiple nomadic machines attempt to reconcile against the server's
baseline file. In this case, a nomadic machine could be using a baseline file
that does not accurately describe the state of its files. This might result in
incorrect reconciliations.
.LP
To safeguard against the dangers associated with a single  baseline file being
shared by more than two machines,  \fBfilesync\fR adds a default rule to each
new packing rules file. This default rule prevents the  packing rules and
baseline files from being copied.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Force the checking of Access Control Lists (\fBACL\fRs )  and attempt to make
them agree for all new and changed files. If it is not possible to set the
\fBACL\fR for a particular file, \fBfilesync\fR stops \fBACL\fR synchronization
for that file.
.sp
Some file systems do not support \fBACL\fRs . It is not possible to synchronize
\fBACL\fRs between file systems that support \fBACL\fRs and those that do not;
attempting to do so will result in numerous error messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI dest-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Specify the directory on the destination system into which \fIfilename\fR is to
be copied. Use with the \fB-s\fR\fI source-dir\fR option and the \fIfilename\fR
operand. See \fB-s\fR and  \fBOPERANDS\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Flag all differences. It may not be possible to resolve all conflicts involving
modes and ownership (unless \fBfilesync\fR is being run with root privileges).
If you cannot change the ownership or protections on a file, \fBfilesync\fR
will normally ignore conflicts in ownership and protection. If you specify the
\fB-e\fR (everything must agree) flag, however, \fBfilesync\fR will flag these
differences.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-f\fR\fB src\fR | \fBdst\fR | \fBold\fR | \fBnew\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The \fB-f\fR option tells \fBfilesync\fR how to resolve conflicting changes. If
a file has been changed on both systems, and an \fB-f\fR option has been
specified, \fBfilesync\fR will retain the changes made on the favored system
and discard the changes made on the unfavored system.
.sp
Specify \fB-f\fR \fBsrc\fR to favor the  source-system file. Specify \fB-f\fR
\fBdst\fR to favor the destination-system file. Specify \fB-f\fR \fBold\fR to
favor the older version of the file. Specify \fB-f\fR \fBnew\fR to favor the
newer version of the file.
.sp
It is possible to specify the  \fB-f\fR and  \fB-o\fR options in combination
if they both specify the same preference  (\fBsrc \fRand\fB dst\fR). If
\fB-f\fR and  \fB-o\fR conflict, the  \fB-f\fR option is ignored. See the
\fB-o\fR option description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Halt on error. Normally, if \fBfilesync\fR encounters a read or write error
while copying files, it notes the error and the program continues, in an
attempt to reconcile other files. If the \fB-h\fR option is specified,
\fBfilesync\fR will immediately halt when one of these errors occurs and will
not try to process any more files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Ensure that both copies of the file have the same modification time. The
modification time for newly copied files is set to the time of reconciliation
by default. File changes are ordered by increasing modification times so that
the propagated files have the same relative modification time ordering as the
original changes. Users should be warned that there is usually some time skew
between  any two systems, and transferring modification times from one system
to another can occasionally produce strange results.
.sp
There are instances in which using \fBfilesync\fR to update some (but not all)
files in a directory will confuse the  \fBmake\fR program. If, for instance,
\fBfilesync\fR is keeping  \fB\&.c\fR files synchronized, but ignoring
\fB\&.o\fR files, a changed  \fB\&.c\fR file may show up with a modification
time prior to a  \fB\&.o\fR file that was built from a prior version of the
\fB\&.c\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Do not really make the changes. If the  \fB-n\fR option is specified,
\fBfilesync\fR determines what changes have been made to files, and what
reconciliations are required and displays this information on the standard
output. No changes are made to files, including the packing rules file.
.sp
Specifying both the \fB-n\fR and \fB-o\fR options causes \fBfilesync\fR to
analyze the prevailing system and report the changes that have been made on
that system. Using \fB-n\fR and \fB-o\fR in combination is useful if your
machine is disconnected (and you cannot access the server) but you want to know
what changes have been made on the local machine. See the \fB-o\fR option
description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-o\fR\fB src | dst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The \fB-o\fR option forces a one-way reconciliation, favoring either the source
system (\fBsrc\fR) or destination system (\fBdst\fR).
.sp
Specify \fB-o\fR \fBsrc\fR to propagate changes only from the source system to
the destination system. Changes made on the destination system are ignored.
\fBfilesync\fR aborts if it cannot access a source or destination directory.
.sp
Specify \fB-o\fR \fBdst\fR to propagate changes only from the destination
system to the source system. Changes made on the source system are ignored.
\fBfilesync\fR aborts if it cannot access a source or destination directory.
.sp
Specifying \fB-n\fR with the \fB-o\fR option causes \fBfilesync\fR to analyze
the prevailing system and reports on what changes have been made on that
system. Using \fB-n\fR and \fB-o\fR in combination is useful if a machine is
disconnected (and there is no access to the server), but you want to know what
changes have been made on the local machine. See the \fB-n\fR option
description.
.sp
It is possible to specify the \fB-o\fR and \fB-f\fR options in combination if
they both specify the same preference (\fBsrc\fR or \fBdst\fR). If \fB-o\fR and
\fB-f\fR options conflict, the \fB-f\fR option will be ignored. See the
\fB-f\fR option description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Suppress the standard \fBfilesync\fR messages that describe each reconciliation
action as it is performed.
.sp
The standard \fBfilesync\fR message describes each reconciliation action in the
form of a UNIX shell command (for example, \fBmv\fR, \fBln\fR, \fBcp\fR,
\fBrm\fR, \fBchmod\fR, \fBchown\fR, \fBchgrp\fR, \fBsetfacl\fR, and so forth).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI directory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Limit the reconciliation to  \fIdirectory\fR. Specify multiple directories with
multiple \fB-r\fR specifications.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI source-dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Specify the directory on the source system from which the  \fIfilename\fR to be
copied is located. Use with the  \fB-d\fR\fI dest-dir\fR option and the
\fIfilename\fR operand. See the \fB-d\fR option description and
\fBOPERANDS\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Display additional information about each file comparison as it is made on the
standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Bypass safety check prompts. Nomadic machines occasionally move between
domains, and many of the files on which \fBfilesync\fR operates are expected to
be accessed by NFS. There is a danger that someday  \fBfilesync\fR will be
asked to reconcile local changes against the wrong file system or server. This
could result in a large number of inappropriate copies and deletions. To
prevent such a mishap,  \fBfilesync\fR performs a few safety checks prior to
reconciliation. If large numbers of files are likely to  be deleted, or if high
level directories have changed their I-node numbers,  \fBfilesync\fR prompts
for a confirmation before reconciliation. If you know that this is likely, and
do not want to be prompted, use the \fB-y\fR (yes) option to automatically
confirm these prompts.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The name of the ordinary file, directory, symbolic link, or special file in the
specified source directory (\fIsource-dir\fR) to be synchronized. Specify
multiple files by separating each filename by spaces. Use the \fIfilename\fR
operand with the \fB-s\fR and \fB-d\fR options. See  \fBOPTIONS\fR.
.sp
If \fIfilename\fR is an ordinary file, that ordinary file will be replicated
(with the same \fIfilename\fR) in the specified destination directory
(\fIdest-dir\fR).
.sp
If \fIfilename\fR is a directory, that directory and all of the files and
subdirectories under it will be replicated (recursively) in the specified
destination directory (\fIdest-dir\fR).
.sp
If  \fIfilename\fR is a symbolic link, a copy of that symbolic link will be
replicated in the specified destination directory (\fIdest-dir\fR).
.sp
If \fIfilename\fR is a special file, a special file with the same major or
minor device numbers will be replicated in the specified destination directory.
(\fIdest-dir).\fR Only super-users can use \fBfilesync\fR to create special
files.
.sp
Files created in the destination directory (\fIdest-dir\fR) will have the same
owner, group and other permissions as the files in the source directory.
.sp
If \fIfilename\fR contains escaped shell wildcard characters, the wildcard
characters are stored in \fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR and evaluated each time
\fBfilesync\fR is run.
.sp
For example, the following would make sure that the two specified files,
currently in \fB$RHOME\fR, were replicated in  \fB$HOME\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfilesync \fR\fB-s\fR\fB $RHOME  \fR\fB-d\fR\fB $HOME a.c \|b.c\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following example would ensure that all of the \fB*.c\fR files in
\fB$RHOME\fR were replicated in  \fB$HOME\fR, even if those files were not
created until later.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfilesync \fR\fB-s\fR\fB $RHOME \fR\fB-d\fR\fB $HOME '*.c'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If any of the destination files already exist,  \fBfilesync\fR ensures that
they are identical and issues warnings if they are not.
.sp
Once files have been copied, the distinction between the source and destination
is a relatively arbitrary  one (except for its use in the \fB-o\fR and \fB-f\fR
switches).
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFILESYNC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies the default location of the \fBfilesync\fR packing rules and baseline
files. The default value for this variable is \fB$HOME\fR. The suffixes
\fB\&.packingrules\fR and \fB\&.filesync-base\fR will be appended to form the
names of the packing rules and baseline files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Determines how diagnostic and informative messages are presented. In the "C"
locale, the messages are presented in the default form found in the program
itself (in most cases, U.S. English).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
Normally, if all files are already up-to-date, or if all files were
successfully reconciled, \fBfilesync\fR will exit with a status of \fB0\fR.
However, if either the \fB-n\fR option was specified or any errors occurred,
the exit status will be the logical OR of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
No conflicts, all files up to date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Some resolvable conflicts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Some conflicts requiring manual resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Some specified files did not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB8\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Insufficient permission for some files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB16\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Errors accessing packing rules or baseline file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB32\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Invalid arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB64\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Unable to access either or both of the specified \fBsrc\fR or \fBdst\fR
directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB128\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Miscellaneous other failures.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.packingrules\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
list of files to be kept synchronized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.filesync-base\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
baseline summary file
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpackingrules\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
