.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH GETCONF 1 "Sep 27, 2013"
.SH NAME
getconf \- get configuration values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg4/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg6/bin/getconf"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR [\fB-v\fR \fIspecification\fR] \fIsystem_var\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR [\fB-v\fR \fIspecification\fR] \fIpath_var\fR \fIpathname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR \fB-a\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/getconf\fR [\fB-v\fR \fIspecification\fR] \fIsystem_var\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/getconf\fR [\fB-v\fR \fIspecification\fR] \fIpath_var\fR \fIpathname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/getconf\fR \fB-a\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/getconf\fR [\fB-v\fR \fIspecification\fR] \fIsystem_var\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/getconf\fR [\fB-v\fR \fIspecification\fR] \fIpath_var\fR \fIpathname\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/getconf\fR \fB-a\fR
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBgetconf\fR [\fB-abdlpqrtw\fR] [\fB-c\fR RE] [\fB-n\fR RE] [\fB-s\fR RE] [\fB-v\fR \fIname\fR][\fIname\fR [\fIpath\fR [\fIvalue\fR]] ...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg4/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg6/bin/getconf"
.sp
.LP
In the first synopsis form, the \fBgetconf\fR utility writes to the standard
output the value of the variable specified by \fIsystem_var\fR, in accordance
with \fIspecification\fR if the \fB-v\fR option is used.
.sp
.LP
In the second synopsis form, \fBgetconf\fR writes to the standard output the
value of the variable specified by \fIpath_var\fR for the path specified by
\fIpathname\fR, in accordance with \fIspecification\fR if the \fB-v\fR option
is used.
.sp
.LP
In the third synopsis form, \fBconfig\fR writes to the standard output the
names of the current system configuration variables.
.sp
.LP
The value of each configuration variable is determined as if it were obtained
by calling the function from which it is defined to be available. The value
reflects conditions in the current operating environment.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetconf\fR built-in in \fBksh93\fR is associated with the \fB/bin\fR and
\fB/usr/bin\fR paths. It is invoked when \fBgetconf\fR is executed without a
pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a \fB/bin/getconf\fR or
\fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR executable.
.sp
.LP
\fBgetconf\fR displays the system configuration value for \fIname\fR. If
\fIname\fR is a filesystem specific variable, the value is determined relative
to path, or, the current directory, if path is omitted. If \fIvalue\fR is
specified, \fBgetconf\fR attempts to change the process local value to
\fIvalue\fR. \fB-\fR can be used in place of path when it is not relevant. Only
writable variables can be set. \fBreadonly\fR variables cannot be changed.
.sp
.LP
The current value for \fIname\fR is written to the standard output. If
\fIname\fR is valid but undefined, \fBundefined\fR is written to the standard
output. If \fIname\fR is invalid or an error occurs in determining its value, a
diagnostic is written to standard error and \fBgetconf\fR exits with a
\fBnon-zero\fR exit status.
.sp
.LP
More than one variable can be set or queried by providing the \fIname path
value\fR 3-tuple for each variable, specifying \fB-\fR for value when querying.
.sp
.LP
If no operands are specified, all known variables are written in
\fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR form to the standard output, one per line. Only
one of \fB--call\fR, \fB--name\fR or \fB--standard\fR can be specified.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg4/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg6/bin/getconf"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR,
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/getconf\fR, and \fB/usr/xpg6/bin/getconf\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Writes the names of the current system configuration variables to the standard
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fIspecification\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Gives the specification which governs the selection of values for configuration
variables.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the \fBgetconf\fR built-in command in
\fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--all\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Call the native \fBgetconf -a\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--base\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
List base variable name without \fBcall\fR and standard prefixes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--call=\fR\fIRE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display variables with \fBcall\fR prefix that matches \fIRE\fR. The \fBcall\fR
prefixes are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBCS\fR
.sp
\fBconfstr\fR(3C),
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBPC\fR
.sp
\fBpathconf\fR(2)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSC\fR
.sp
\fBsysconf\fR(3C)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSI\fR
.sp
\fBsysinfo\fR(2)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBXX\fR
.sp
Constant value
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--defined\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Only display defined values when no operands are specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--lowercase\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
List variable names in lower case.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--name=\fR\fIRE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display variables with names that match \fIRE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--portable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display the named writable variables and values in a form that can be directly
executed by \fBksh93\fR(1) to set the values. If \fIname\fR is omitted, lists
all writable variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--quote\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Quote values (\fB"..."\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--readonly\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display the named \fBreadonly\fR variables in \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR
form. If \fIname\fR is omitted, lists all \fBreadonly\fR variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--standard=\fR\fIRE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display variables with standard prefix that matches \fIRE\fR. Use the
\fB--table\fR option to view all standard prefixes, including local additions.
.sp
The standard prefixes available on all systems are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf

AES
AST
C
GNU
POSIX
SVID
XBS5
XOPEN
XPG
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--table\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display the internal table that contains the name, standard, standard section,
and system call symbol prefix for each variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--writable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Display the named writable variables in \fIname\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR form. If
\fIname\fR is omitted, lists all writable variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--specification=name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Call the native \fBgetconf -v\fR \fIname\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.SS "/usr/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg4/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg6/bin/getconf"
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported by \fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR,
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/getconf\fR, and \fB/usr/xpg6/bin/getconf\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpath_var\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A name of a configuration variable whose value is available from the
\fBpathconf\fR(2) function. All of the values in the following table are
supported:
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
ACL_ENABLED	NAME_MAX	XATTR_ENABLED
LINK_MAX	PATH_MAX	XATTR_EXISTS
MAX_CANON	PIPE_BUF	_POSIX_CHOWN_RESTRICTED
MAX_INPUT	SATTR_ENABLED	_POSIX_NO_TRUNC
MIN_HOLE_SIZE	SATTR_EXISTS	_POSIX_VDISABLE
.TE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A path name for which the variable specified by \fIpath_var\fR is to be
determined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsystem_var\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A name of a configuration variable whose value is available from
\fBconfstr\fR(3C) or \fBsysconf\fR(3C). All of the values in the following
table are supported:
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
ARG_MAX	BC_BASE_MAX
BC_DIM_MAX	BC_SCALE_MAX
BC_STRING_MAX	CHAR_BIT
CHARCLASS_NAME_MAX	CHAR_MAX
CHAR_MIN	CHILD_MAX
CLK_TCK	COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX
CS_PATH	EXPR_NEST_MAX
HOST_NAME_MAX	INT_MAX
INT_MIN	LFS64_CFLAGS
LFS64_LDFLAGS	LFS64_LIBS
LFS64_LINTFLAGS	LFS_CFLAGS
LFS_LDFLAGS	LFS_LIBS
LFS_LINTFLAGS	LINE_MAX
LONG_BIT	LONG_MAX
LONG_MIN	MB_LEN_MAX
NGROUPS_MAX	NL_ARGMAX
NL_LANGMAX	NL_MSGMAX
NL_NMAX	NL_SETMAX
NL_TEXTMAX	NPROCESSORS_CONF
NPROCESSORS_MAX	NPROCESSORS_ONLN
NZERO	OPEN_MAX
POSIX2_BC_BASE_MAX	POSIX2_BC_DIM_MAX
POSIX2_BC_SCALE_MAX	POSIX2_BC_STRING_MAX
POSIX2_C_BIND	POSIX2_C_DEV
POSIX2_CHAR_TERM	POSIX2_COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX
POSIX2_C_VERSION	POSIX2_EXPR_NEST_MAX
POSIX2_FORT_DEV	POSIX2_FORT_RUN
POSIX2_LINE_MAX	POSIX2_LOCALEDEF
POSIX2_RE_DUP_MAX	POSIX2_SW_DEV
POSIX2_SYMLINKS	POSIX2_UPE
POSIX2_VERSION	POSIX_ALLOC_SIZE_MIN
POSIX_REC_INCR_XFER_SIZE	POSIX_REC_MAX_XFER_SIZE
POSIX_REC_MIN_XFER_SIZE	POSIX_REC_XFER_ALIGN
POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32	POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_CFLAGS
POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_LDFLAGS	POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32_LIBS
POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG	POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_CFLAGS
POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS	POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG_LIBS
POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64	POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS
POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS	POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LIBS
POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG	POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_CFLAGS
POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS	POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LIBS
POSIX_V6_WIDTH_RESTRICTED_ENVS	SYMLINK_MAX
SYMLOOP_MAX	_POSIX2_BC_BASE_MAX
_POSIX2_BC_DIM_MAX	_POSIX2_BC_SCALE_MAX
_POSIX2_BC_STRING_MAX	_POSIX2_CHARCLASS_NAME_MAX
_POSIX2_CHAR_TERM	_POSIX2_COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX
_POSIX2_C_BIND	_POSIX2_C_DEV
_POSIX2_C_VERSION	_POSIX2_EXPR_NEST_MAX
_POSIX2_FORT_DEV	_POSIX2_FORT_RUN
_POSIX2_LINE_MAX	_POSIX2_LOCALEDEF
_POSIX2_PBS	_POSIX2_PBS_ACCOUNTING
_POSIX2_PBS_CHECKPOINT	_POSIX2_PBS_LOCATE
_POSIX2_PBS_MESSAGE	_POSIX2_PBS_TRACK
_POSIX2_RE_DUP_MAX	_POSIX2_SW_DEV
_POSIX2_UPE	_POSIX2_VERSION
_POSIX_ADVISORY_INFO	_POSIX_AIO_LISTIO_MAX
_POSIX_AIO_MAX	_POSIX_ARG_MAX
_POSIX_ASYNC_IO	_POSIX_BARRIERS
_POSIX_CHILD_MAX	_POSIX_CLOCKRES_MIN
_POSIX_CLOCK_SELECTION	_POSIX_CPUTIME
_POSIX_DELAYTIMER_MAX	_POSIX_HOST_NAME_MAX
_POSIX_IPV6	_POSIX_JOB_CONTROL
_POSIX_LINK_MAX	_POSIX_LOGIN_NAME_MAX
_POSIX_MAX_CANON	_POSIX_MAX_INPUT
_POSIX_MONOTONIC_CLOCK	_POSIX_MQ_OPEN_MAX
_POSIX_MQ_PRIO_MAX	_POSIX_NAME_MAX
_POSIX_NGROUPS_MAX	_POSIX_OPEN_MAX
_POSIX_PATH_MAX	_POSIX_PIPE_BUF
_POSIX_PRIO_IO	_POSIX_RAW_SOCKETS
_POSIX_READER_WRITER_LOCKS	_POSIX_REGEXP
_POSIX_RE_DUP_MAX	_POSIX_RTSIG_MAX
_POSIX_SAVED_IDS	_POSIX_SEM_NSEMS_MAX
_POSIX_SEM_VALUE_MAX	_POSIX_SHELL
_POSIX_SIGQUEUE_MAX	_POSIX_SPAWN
_POSIX_SPIN_LOCKS	_POSIX_SPORADIC_SERVER
_POSIX_SSIZE_MAX	_POSIX_SS_REPL_MAX
_POSIX_STREAM_MAX	_POSIX_SYMLINK_MAX
_POSIX_SYMLOOP_MAX	_POSIX_SYNC_IO
_POSIX_THREAD_ATTR_STACKADDR	_POSIX_THREAD_ATTR_STACKSIZE
_POSIX_THREAD_CPUTIME	_POSIX_THREAD_DESTRUCTOR_ITERATIONS
_POSIX_THREAD_KEYS_MAX	_POSIX_THREAD_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
_POSIX_THREAD_PRIO_INHERIT	_POSIX_THREAD_PRIO_PROTECT
_POSIX_THREAD_PROCESS_SHARED	_POSIX_THREAD_SAFE_FUNCTIONS
_POSIX_THREAD_SPORADIC_SERVER	_POSIX_THREAD_THREADS_MAX
_POSIX_TIMEOUTS	_POSIX_TIMER_MAX
_POSIX_TRA_POSIX_TIMER_MAXCE	_POSIX_TIMESTAMP_RESOLUTION
_POSIX_TRACE_EVENT_FILTER	_POSIX_TRACE_EVENT_NAME_MAX
_POSIX_TRACE_INHERIT	_POSIX_TRACE_LOG
_POSIX_TRACE_NAME_MAX	_POSIX_TRACE_SYS_MAX
_POSIX_TRACE_USER_EVENT_MAX	_POSIX_TTY_NAME_MAX
_POSIX_TYPED_MEMORY_OBJECTS	_POSIX_TZNAME_MAX
_POSIX_VERSION	_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFF32
_POSIX_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG	_POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64
_POSIX_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG	_V6_ILP32_OFF32
_V6_ILP32_OFFBIG	_V6_LP64_OFF64
_V6_LPBIG_OFFBIG	RE_DUP_MAX
SCHAR_MAX	SCHAR_MIN
SHRT_MAX	SHRT_MIN
SSIZE_MAX	STREAM_MAX
TMP_MAX	TZNAME_MAX
UCHAR_MAX	UINT_MAX
ULONG_MAX	USHRT_MAX
WORD_BIT	XBS5_ILP32_OFF32
XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_CFLAGS	XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_LDFLAGS
XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_LIBS	XBS5_ILP32_OFF32_LINTFLAGS
XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG	XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_CFLAGS
XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS	XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_LIBS
XBS5_ILP32_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS	XBS5_LP64_OFF64
XBS5_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS	XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS
XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LIBS	XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LINTFLAGS
XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG	XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_CFLAGS
XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LDFLAGS	XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LIBS
XBS5_LPBIG_OFFBIG_LINTFLAGS	_XOPEN_CRYPT
_XOPEN_ENH_I18N	_XOPEN_IOV_MAX
_XOPEN_LEGACY	_XOPEN_NAME_MAX
_XOPEN_PATH_MAX	_XOPEN_SHM
_XOPEN_STREAMS	_XOPEN_VERSION
_XOPEN_XCU_VERSION	_XOPEN_XPG2
_XOPEN_XPG3	_XOPEN_XPG4
.TE

.sp
.LP
The symbol \fBPATH\fR also is recognized, yielding the same value as the
\fBconfstr()\fR name value \fBCS_PATH\fR.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of
\fB/usr/bin/getconf\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte
( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRWriting the Value of a Variable
.sp
.LP
This example illustrates the value of \fB{NGROUPS_MAX}:\fR

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBgetconf NGROUPS_MAX\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRWriting the Value of a Variable for a Specific Directory
.sp
.LP
This example illustrates the value of \fBNAME_MAX\fR for a specific directory:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBgetconf NAME_MAX /usr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDealing with Unspecified Results
.sp
.LP
This example shows how to deal more carefully with results that might be
unspecified:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBif value=$(getconf PATH_MAX /usr); then
if [ "$value" = "undefined" ]; then
echo PATH_MAX in /usr is infinite.
else
echo PATH_MAX in /usr is $value.
fi
else
echo Error in getconf.
fi\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBsysconf(_SC_POSIX_C_BIND);\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
and

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBsystem("getconf POSIX2_C_BIND");\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
in a C program could give different answers. The \fBsysconf\fR call supplies a
value that corresponds to the conditions when the program was either compiled
or executed, depending on the implementation. The \fBsystem\fR call to
\fBgetconf\fR always supplies a value corresponding to conditions when the
program is executed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBgetconf\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following environment variable is supported by the \fBksh93\fR built-in
\fBgetconf\fR command:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB_AST_FEATURES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Local writable values that are different from the default are stored in the
\fB_AST_FEATURES\fR environment variable. The \fB_AST_FEATURES\fR value is a
space-separated list of \fIname path value\fR 3-tuples, where \fIname\fR is the
system configuration name, \fIpath\fR is the corresponding path, \fB-\fR if no
path is applicable, and \fIvalue\fR is the system configuration value.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The specified variable is valid and information about its current state was
written successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg4/bin/getconf, /usr/xpg6/bin/getconf"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBksh93\fR built-in binding to \fB/bin\fR and \fB/usr/bin\fR is Volatile.
The built-in command-line interface is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBksh93\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBpathconf\fR(2), \fBsysinfo\fR(2),
\fBconfstr\fR(3C), \fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
