'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GPROF 1 "Feb 8, 2007"
.SH NAME
gprof \- display call-graph profile data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgprof\fR [\fB-abcCDlsz\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIfunction-name\fR] [\fB-E\fR \fIfunction-name\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fIfunction-name\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIfunction-name\fR]
     [\fIimage-file\fR [\fIprofile-file\fR...]]
     [\fB-n\fR \fInumber of functions\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgprof\fR utility produces an execution profile of a program. The effect
of called routines is incorporated in the profile of each caller.  The profile
data is taken from the call graph profile file that is created by programs
compiled with the \fB-xpg\fR option of \fBcc\fR(1), or by the  \fB-pg\fR option
with other compilers, or by setting the  \fBLD_PROFILE\fR environment variable
for shared objects. See \fBld.so.1\fR(1). These compiler options also link in
versions of the library routines which are compiled for profiling.  The symbol
table in the executable image file \fIimage-file\fR (\fBa.out\fR by default) is
read and correlated with the call graph profile file \fIprofile-file\fR
(\fBgmon.out\fR by default).
.sp
.LP
First, execution times for each routine are propagated along the edges of the
call graph. Cycles are discovered, and calls into a cycle are made to share the
time of the cycle.  The first listing shows the functions sorted according to
the time they represent, including the time of their call graph descendants.
Below each function entry is shown its (direct) call-graph children and how
their times are propagated to this function.  A similar display above the
function shows how this function's time and the time of its descendants are
propagated to its (direct) call-graph parents.
.sp
.LP
Cycles are also shown, with an entry for the cycle as a whole and a listing of
the members of the cycle and their contributions to the time and call counts of
the cycle.
.sp
.LP
Next, a flat profile is given, similar to that provided by \fBprof\fR(1). This
listing gives the total execution times and call counts for each of the
functions in the program, sorted by decreasing time. Finally, an index is
given, which shows the correspondence between function names and call-graph
profile index numbers.
.sp
.LP
A single function may be split into subfunctions for profiling by means of the
\fBMARK\fR macro. See  \fBprof\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
Beware of quantization errors.  The granularity of the sampling is shown, but
remains statistical at best.  It is assumed that the time for each execution of
a function can be expressed by the total time for the function divided by the
number of times the function is called.  Thus the time propagated along the
call-graph arcs to parents of that function is directly proportional to the
number of times that arc is traversed.
.sp
.LP
The profiled program must call \fBexit\fR(2) or return normally for the
profiling information to be saved in the \fBgmon.out\fR file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Suppress printing statically declared functions.  If this option is given, all
relevant information about the static function (for instance, time samples,
calls to other functions, calls from other functions) belongs to the function
loaded just before the static function in the \fBa.out\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Brief.  Suppress descriptions of each field in the profile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Discover the static call-graph of the program by a heuristic which examines the
text space of the object file.  Static-only parents or children are indicated
with call counts of 0. Note that for dynamically linked executables, the linked
shared objects' text segments are not examined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Demangle C++ symbol names before printing them out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Produce a profile file \fBgmon.sum\fR that represents the difference of the
profile information in all specified profile files.  This summary profile file
may be given to subsequent executions of  \fBgprof\fR (also with \fB-D\fR) to
summarize profile data across several runs of an \fBa.out\fR file.  See also
the \fB-s\fR option.
.sp
As an example, suppose function A calls function B  \fBn\fR times in profile
file \fBgmon.sum\fR, and \fBm\fR times in profile file  \fBgmon.out\fR. With
\fB-D\fR, a new \fBgmon.sum\fR file will be created showing the number of calls
from A to B as \fBn-m\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fIfunction-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Suppress printing the graph profile entry for routine \fIfunction-name\fR and
all its descendants (unless they have other ancestors that are not suppressed).
More than one \fB-e\fR option may be given.  Only one \fIfunction-name\fR may
be given with each \fB-e\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR\fIfunction-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Suppress printing the graph profile entry for routine \fIfunction-name\fR (and
its descendants) as \fB-e\fR, below, and also exclude the time spent in
\fIfunction-name\fR (and its descendants) from the total and percentage time
computations. More than one \fB-E\fR option may be given.  For example:
.sp
\fB-E\fR \fImcount\fR \fB-E\fR \fImcleanup\fR
.sp
is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fIfunction-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print the graph profile entry only for routine \fIfunction-name\fR and its
descendants.  More than one \fB-f\fR option may be given.  Only one
\fIfunction-name\fR may be given with each \fB-f\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fIfunction-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print the graph profile entry only for routine \fIfunction-name\fR and its
descendants (as \fB-f\fR, below) and also use only the times of the printed
routines in total time and percentage computations.  More than one \fB-F\fR
option may be given.  Only one \fIfunction-name\fR may be given with each
\fB-F\fR option.  The \fB-F\fR option overrides the \fB-E\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Suppress the reporting of graph profile entries for all local symbols.  This
option would be the equivalent of placing all of the local symbols for the
specified executable image on the \fB-E\fR exclusion list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Limits the size of flat and graph profile listings to the top \fBn\fR offending
functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Produce a profile file \fBgmon.sum\fR which represents the sum of the profile
information in all of the specified profile files.  This summary profile file
may be given to subsequent executions of \fBgprof\fR (also with  \fB-s\fR) to
accumulate profile data across several runs of an \fBa.out\fR file.  See also
the \fB-D\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Display routines which have zero usage (as indicated by call counts and
accumulated time). This is useful in conjunction with the \fB-c\fR option for
discovering which routines were never called. Note that this has restricted use
for dynamically linked executables, since shared object text space will not be
examined by the \fB-c\fR option.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROFDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
If this environment variable contains a value, place profiling output within
that directory, in a file named \fIpid\fR\fB\&.\fR\fIprogramname\fR. \fIpid\fR
is the process \fBID\fR and \fIprogramname\fR is the name of the program being
profiled, as determined by removing any path prefix from the \fBargv[0]\fR with
which the program was called. If the variable contains a null value, no
profiling output is produced.  Otherwise, profiling output is placed in the
file \fBgmon.out\fR.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa.out\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
executable file containing namelist
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgmon.out\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
dynamic call-graph and profile
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgmon.sum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
summarized dynamic call-graph and profile
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$PROFDIR/\fR\fIpid\fR\fB\&.\fR\fIprogramname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcc\fR(1), \fBld.so.1\fR(1), \fBprof\fR(1), \fBexit\fR(2), \fBpcsample\fR(2),
\fBprofil\fR(2), \fBmalloc\fR(3C), \fBmalloc\fR(3MALLOC), \fBmonitor\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprof\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Graham, S.L., Kessler, P.B., McKusick, M.K., \fIgprof: A Call Graph Execution
Profiler Proceedings of the SIGPLAN '82 Symposium on Compiler Construction\fR,
\fBSIGPLAN\fR Notices, Vol. 17, No. 6, pp. 120-126, June 1982.
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If the executable image has been stripped and does not have the \fB\&.symtab\fR
symbol table, \fBgprof\fR reads the global dynamic symbol tables
\fB\&.dynsym\fR and \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR, if present.  The symbols in the
dynamic symbol tables are a subset of the symbols that are found in
\fB\&.symtab\fR. The \fB\&.dynsym\fR symbol table contains the global symbols
used by the runtime linker. \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR augments the information in
\fB\&.dynsym\fR with local function symbols. In the case where \fB\&.dynsym\fR
is found and \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR is not, only the  information for the global
symbols is available. Without local symbols, the behavior is as described for
the  \fB-a\fR option.
.sp
.LP
\fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR must not contain \fB/usr/lib\fR as a component when
compiling a program for profiling.   If  \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR contains
\fB/usr/lib\fR, the program will not be linked correctly with the profiling
versions of  the system libraries in \fB/usr/lib/libp\fR.
.sp
.LP
The times reported in successive identical runs may show variances because of
varying cache-hit ratios that result from sharing the cache with other
processes. Even if a program seems to be the only one using the machine, hidden
background or asynchronous processes may blur the data. In rare cases, the
clock ticks initiating recording of the program counter may \fBbeat\fR with
loops in a program, grossly distorting measurements. Call counts are always
recorded precisely, however.
.sp
.LP
Only programs that call \fBexit\fR or return from \fBmain\fR are guaranteed to
produce a profile file, unless a final call to \fBmonitor\fR is explicitly
coded.
.sp
.LP
Functions such as \fBmcount()\fR, \fB_mcount()\fR, \fBmoncontrol()\fR,
\fB_moncontrol()\fR, \fBmonitor()\fR, and \fB_monitor()\fR may appear in the
\fBgprof\fR report.  These functions are part of the profiling implementation
and thus account for some amount of the runtime overhead.  Since these
functions are not present in an unprofiled application, time accumulated and
call counts for these functions may be ignored when evaluating the performance
of an application.
.SS "64-bit profiling"
.sp
.LP
64-bit profiling may be used freely with dynamically linked executables, and
profiling information is collected for the shared objects if the objects are
compiled for profiling. Care must be applied to interpret the profile output,
since it is possible for symbols from different shared objects to have the same
name. If name duplication occurs in the profile output, the module id prefix
before the symbol name in the symbol index listing can be used to identify the
appropriate module for the symbol.
.sp
.LP
When using the \fB-s\fR or \fB-D\fRoption to sum multiple profile files, care
must be taken not to mix 32-bit profile files with 64-bit profile files.
.SS "32-bit profiling"
.sp
.LP
32-bit profiling may be used with dynamically linked executables, but care must
be applied. In 32-bit profiling, shared objects cannot be profiled with
\fBgprof\fR. Thus, when a profiled, dynamically linked program is executed,
only the \fBmain\fR portion of the image is sampled. This means that all time
spent outside of the \fBmain\fR object, that is, time spent in a shared object,
will not be included in the profile summary; the total time reported for the
program may be less than the total time used by the program.
.sp
.LP
Because the time spent in a shared object cannot be accounted for, the use of
shared objects should be minimized whenever a program is profiled with
\fBgprof\fR. If desired, the program should be linked to the profiled version
of a library (or to the standard archive version if no profiling version is
available), instead of the shared object to get profile information on the
functions of a library. Versions of profiled libraries may be supplied with the
system in the \fB/usr/lib/libp\fR directory. Refer to compiler driver
documentation on profiling.
.sp
.LP
Consider an extreme case. A profiled program dynamically linked with the shared
C library spends 100 units of time in some \fBlibc\fR routine, say,
\fBmalloc()\fR. Suppose \fBmalloc()\fR is called only from routine \fBB\fR  and
\fBB\fR consumes only 1 unit of time. Suppose further that routine \fBA\fR
consumes 10 units of time, more than any other routine in the \fBmain\fR
(profiled) portion of the image. In this case, \fBgprof\fR will conclude that
most of the time is being spent in \fBA\fR and almost no time is being spent in
\fBB\fR. From this it will be almost impossible to tell that the greatest
improvement can be made by looking at routine \fBB\fR and not routine \fBA\fR.
The value of the profiler in this case is severely degraded; the solution is to
use archives as much as possible for profiling.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Parents which are not themselves profiled will have the time of their profiled
children propagated to them, but they will appear to be spontaneously invoked
in the call-graph listing, and will not have their time propagated further.
Similarly, signal catchers, even though profiled, will appear to be spontaneous
(although for more obscure reasons). Any profiled children of signal catchers
should have their times propagated properly, unless the signal catcher was
invoked during the execution of the profiling routine, in which case all is
lost.
