'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GROUPS 1 "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
groups \- print group membership of user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBgroups\fR [\fIuser\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The command \fBgroups\fR prints on standard output the groups to which you or
the optionally specified user belong. Each user belongs to a group specified in
\fB/etc/passwd\fR and possibly to other groups as specified in
\fB/etc/group\fR. Note that  \fB/etc/passwd\fR specifies the numerical \fBID\fR
(\fBgid\fR) of the group. The \fBgroups\fR command converts \fBgid\fR to the
group name in the output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The output takes the following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% groups tester01 tester02
tester01 : staff
tester02 : staff
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/group\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgroup\fR(4), \fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
