'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH HISTORY 1 "May 13, 2017"
.SH NAME
history, fc, hist \- process command history list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/fc\fR [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIeditor\fR] [\fIfirst\fR [\fIlast\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/fc\fR \fB-l\fR [\fB-nr\fR] [\fIfirst\fR [\fIlast\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/fc\fR \fB-s\fR [\fIold\fR=\fInew\fR] [\fIfirst\fR]
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBhistory\fR [\fB-hr\fR] [\fIn\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBfc\fR \fB-e\fR \fB-\fR [\fIold\fR=\fInew\fR] [\fIcommand\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfc\fR \fB-s\fR [\fIold\fR = \fInew\fR] [\fIcommand\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfc\fR [\fB-e\fR \fIename\fR] [\fB-nlr\fR] [\fIfirst\fR [\fIlast\fR]]
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBhist\fR [\fB-lnprs\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIeditor\fR][\fB-N\fR \fInum\fR][\fIfirst\fR[\fIlast\fR]]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/fc"
.LP
The \fBfc\fR utility lists or edits and reexecutes, commands previously entered
to an interactive \fBsh\fR.
.sp
.LP
The command history list references commands by number. The first number in the
list is selected arbitrarily. The relationship of a number to its command does
not change except when the user logs in and no other process is accessing the
list, at which time the system can reset the numbering to start the oldest
retained command at another number (usually 1). When the number reaches the
value in \fBHISTSIZE\fR or \fB32767\fR (whichever is greater), the shell can
wrap the numbers, starting the next command with a lower number (usually 1).
However, despite this optional wrapping of numbers, \fBfc\fR maintains the
time-ordering sequence of the commands. For example, if four commands in
sequence are given the numbers 32 766, 32 767, 1 (wrapped), and 2 as they are
executed, command 32 767 is considered the command previous to 1, even though
its number is higher.
.sp
.LP
When commands are edited (when the \fB-l\fR option is not specified), the
resulting lines is entered at the end of the history list and then reexecuted
by \fBsh\fR. The \fBfc\fR command that caused the editing is not entered into
the history list. If the editor returns a non-zero exit status, this suppresses
the entry into the history list and the command reexecution. Any command-line
variable assignments or redirection operators used with \fBfc\fR affects both
the \fBfc\fR command itself as well as the command that results, for example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfc -s -- -1 2>/dev/null\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
reinvokes the previous command, suppressing standard error for both \fBfc\fR
and the previous command.
.SS "csh"
.LP
Display the history list. If \fIn\fR is given, display only the \fIn\fR most
recent events.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Reverse the order of printout to be most recent first rather than oldest first.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display the history list without leading numbers. This is used to produce files
suitable for sourcing using the \fB-h\fR option to the \fBcsh\fR built-in
command, \fBsource\fR(1).
.RE

.SS "History Substitution:"
.LP
History substitution allows you to use words from previous command lines in the
command line you are typing. This simplifies spelling corrections and the
repetition of complicated commands or arguments. Command lines are saved in the
history list, the size of which is controlled by the \fBhistory\fR variable.
The \fBhistory\fR shell variable can be set to the maximum number of command
lines that is saved in the history file, that is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
set history = 200
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
allows the history list to keep track of the most recent 200 command lines. If
not set, the C shell saves only the most recent command.
.sp
.LP
A history substitution begins with a \fB!\fR (although you can change this with
the \fBhistchars\fR variable) and can occur anywhere on the command line;
history substitutions do not nest. The \fB!\fR can be escaped with \fB\e\fR to
suppress its special meaning.
.sp
.LP
Input lines containing history substitutions are echoed on the terminal after
being expanded, but before any other substitutions take place or the command
gets executed.
.SS "Event Designators:"
.LP
An event designator is a reference to a command line entry in the history list.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Start a history substitution, except when followed by a space character, tab,
newline, \fB=\fR or \fB(\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!!\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to the previous command. By itself, this substitution repeats the
previous command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to command line \fIn\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to the current command line minus \fIn\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fIstr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to the most recent command starting with \fIstr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!?\fR\fIstr\fR\fB?\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to the most recent command containing \fIstr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!?\fR\fIstr\fR\fB?\fR \fIadditional\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to the most recent command containing \fIstr\fR and append
\fIadditional\fR to that referenced command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!{\fR\fBcommand\fR\fB}\fR \fIadditional\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Refer to the most recent command beginning with \fBcommand\fR and append
\fIadditional\fR to that referenced command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB^\fR\fIprevious_word\fR\fB^\fR\fIreplacement\fR\fB^\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Repeat the previous command line replacing the string \fIprevious_word\fR with
the string \fIreplacement\fR. This is equivalent to the history substitution:
.sp
Repeat the previous command line replacing the string \fIprevious_word\fR with
the string \fIreplacement\fR. This is equivalent to the history substitution:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB!:s/\fR\fIprevious_word\fR\fB/\fR\fIreplacement\fR\fB/\fR.
.fi
.in -2

To re-execute a specific previous command \fBand\fR make such a substitution,
say, re-executing command #6:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB!:6s/\fR\fIprevious_word\fR\fB/\fR\fIreplacement\fR\fB/\fR.
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SS "Word Designators:"
.LP
A `\fB:\fR' (colon) separates the event specification from the word designator.
2It can be omitted if the word designator begins with a \fB^\fR, \fB$\fR,
\fB*\fR, \fB\(mi\fR or \fB%\fR. If the word is to be selected from the previous
command, the second \fB!\fR character can be omitted from the event
specification. For instance, \fB!!:1\fR and \fB!:1\fR both refer to the first
word of the previous command, while \fB!!$\fR and \fB!$\fR both refer to the
last word in the previous command. Word designators include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB#\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The entire command line typed so far.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The first input word (command).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIn\fR'th argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB^\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The first argument, that is, \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The last argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The word matched by (the most recent) \fB?\fR\fIs\fR search.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIx\fR\fB\(mi\fR\fIy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A range of words; \fB\(mi\fR\fIy\fR abbreviates \fB0\(mi\fR\fIy\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
All the arguments, or a null value if there is just one word in the event.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIx\fR\fB*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Abbreviates \fIx\fR\fB\(mi$\fR\fI\&.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIx\fR\fB\(mi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Like \fIx\fR\fB*\fR but omitting word \fB$\fR.
.RE

.SS "Modifiers:"
.LP
After the optional word designator, you can add a sequence of one or more of
the following modifiers, each preceded by a \fB:\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Remove a trailing pathname component, leaving the head.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Remove a trailing suffix of the form `\fB\&.\fR\fIxxx\fR', leaving the
basename.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBe\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Remove all but the suffix, leaving the extension.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs/\fR\fIoldchars\fR\fB/\fR\fIreplacements\fR\fB/\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Substitute \fIreplacements\fR for \fIoldchars\fR. \fIoldchars\fR is a string
that can contain embedded blank spaces, whereas \fIprevious_word\fR in the
event designator can not.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB^\fR\fIoldchars\fR\fB^\fR\fIreplacements\fR\fB^\fR
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Remove all leading pathname components, leaving the tail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB&\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Repeat the previous substitution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Apply the change to the first occurrence of a match in each word, by prefixing
the above (for example, \fBg&\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Print the new command but do not execute it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Quote the substituted words, escaping further substitutions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Like \fBq\fR, but break into words at each space character, tab or newline.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Unless preceded by a \fBg\fR, the modification is applied only to the first
string that matches \fIoldchars\fR. An error results if no string matches.
.sp
.LP
The left-hand side of substitutions are not regular expressions, but character
strings. Any character can be used as the delimiter in place of \fB/\fR. A
backslash quotes the delimiter character. The character \fB&\fR, in the right
hand side, is replaced by the text from the left-hand-side. The \fB&\fR can be
quoted with a backslash. A null \fIoldchars\fR uses the previous string either
from a \fIoldchars\fR or from a contextual scan string \fIs\fR from
\fB!?\fR\fIs\fR. You can omit the rightmost delimiter if a newline immediately
follows \fIreplacements\fR; the rightmost \fB?\fR in a context scan can
similarly be omitted.
.sp
.LP
Without an event specification, a history reference refers either to the
previous command, or to a previous history reference on the command line (if
any).
.SS "ksh"
.LP
Using \fBfc\fR, in the form of
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfc -e \(mi [\fIold\fR=\fInew\fR] [\fIcommand\fR],\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfc -s [\fIold\fR=\fInew\fR] [\fIcommand\fR],\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
the \fIcommand\fR is re-executed after the substitution
\fIold\fR\fB=\fR\fInew\fR is performed. If there is not a \fIcommand\fR
argument, the most recent command typed at this terminal is executed.
.sp
.LP
Using \fBfc\fR in the form of
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBfc [-e \fIename\fR] [-nlr ] [\fIfirst\fR [\fIlast\fR]],\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
a range of commands from \fIfirst\fR to \fIlast\fR is selected from the last
\fBHISTSIZE\fR commands that were typed at the terminal. The arguments
\fIfirst\fR and \fIlast\fR can be specified as a number or as a string. A
string is used to locate the most recent command starting with the given
string. A negative number is used as an offset to the current command number.
If the \fB-l\fR flag is selected, the commands are listed on standard output.
Otherwise, the editor program \fB-e\fR \fIname\fR is invoked on a file
containing these keyboard commands. If \fIename\fR is not supplied, then the
value of the variable \fBFCEDIT\fR (default \fB/bin/ed\fR) is used as the
editor. When editing is complete, the edited command(s) is executed. If
\fBlast\fR is not specified, it is set to \fIfirst\fR. If \fIfirst\fR is not
specified, the default is the previous command for editing and \(mi16 for
listing. The flag \fB-r\fR reverses the order of the commands and the flag
\fB-n\fR suppresses command numbers when listing. (See \fBksh\fR(1) for more
about command line editing.)
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHISTFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
If this variable is set when the shell is invoked, then the value is the
pathname of the file that is used to store the command history.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHISTSIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
If this variable is set when the shell is invoked, then the number of
previously entered commands that are accessible by this shell is greater than
or equal to this number. The default is \fB128\fR.
.RE

.SS "Command Re-entry:"
.LP
The text of the last \fBHISTSIZE\fR (default 128) commands entered from a
terminal device is saved in a \fBhistory\fR file. The file
\fB$HOME/.sh_history\fR is used if the \fBHISTFILE\fR variable is not set or if
the file it names is not writable. A shell can access the commands of all
\fIinteractive\fR shells which use the same named \fBHISTFILE\fR. The special
command \fBfc\fR is used to list or edit a portion of this file. The portion of
the file to be edited or listed can be selected by number or by giving the
first character or characters of the command. A single command or range of
commands can be specified. If you do not specify an editor program as an
argument to \fBfc\fR then the value of the variable \fBFCEDIT\fR is used. If
\fBFCEDIT\fR is not defined then \fB/bin/ed\fR is used. The edited command(s)
is printed and re-executed upon leaving the editor. The editor name \fB\(mi\fR
is used to skip the editing phase and to re-execute the command. In this case a
substitution parameter of the form \fIold\fR\fB=\fR\fInew\fR can be used to
modify the command before execution. For example, if \fBr\fR is aliased to
\fBa\'fc\fR \fB-e\fR \fB\(mi a\'\fR then typing \fB`r\fR \fBbad=good\fR
\fBc'\fR re-executes the most recent command which starts with the letter
\fBc\fR, replacing the first occurrence of the string \fBbad\fR with the string
\fBgood\fR.
.sp
.LP
Using the \fBfc\fR built-in command within a compound command causes the whole
command to disappear from the history file.
.SS "ksh93"
.LP
\fBhist\fR lists, edits, or re-executes commands previously entered into the
current shell environment.
.sp
.LP
The command history list references commands by number. The first number in the
list is selected arbitrarily. The relationship of a number to its command does
not change during a login session. When the number reaches \fB32767\fR the
number wraps around to \fB1\fR but maintains the ordering.
.sp
.LP
When the \fBl\fR option is not specified, and commands are edited, the
resulting lines are entered at the end of the history list and then re-executed
by the current shell. The \fBhist\fR command that caused the editing is not
entered into the history list. If the editor returns a \fBnon-zero\fR exit
status, this suppresses the entry into the history list and the command
re-execution. Command line variable assignments and redirections affect both
the \fBhist\fR command and the commands that are re-executed.
.sp
.LP
\fIfirst\fR and \fIlast\fR define the range of commands. Specify \fIfirst\fR
and \fIlast\fR as one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A positive number representing a command number. A \fB+\fR sign can precede
\fInumber\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A negative number representing a command that was executed \fInumber\fR
commands previously. For example, \fB-1\fR is the previous command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
\fIstring\fR indicates the most recently entered command that begins with
\fIstring\fR. \fIstring\fR should not contain an \fB=\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If \fIfirst\fR is omitted, the previous command is used, unless \fB-l\fR is
specified, in which case it defaults to \fB-16\fR and last defaults to
\fB-1\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fIfirst\fR is specified and \fIlast\fR is omitted, then \fIlast\fR defaults
to \fIfirst\fR unless \fB-l\fR is specified in which case it defaults to
\fB-1\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no editor is specified, then the editor specified by the \fBHISTEDIT\fR
variable is used if set, or the \fBFCEDIT\fR variable is used if set,
otherwise, \fBed\fR is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-e\fR \fIeditor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Uses the editor named by \fIeditor\fR to edit the commands. The \fIeditor\fR
string is a utility name, subject to search via the \fBPATH\fR variable. The
value in the \fBFCEDIT\fR variable is used as a default when \fB-e\fR is not
specified. If \fBFCEDIT\fR is null or unset, \fBed\fR is used as the editor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
(The letter ell.) Lists the commands rather than invoking an editor on them.
The commands is written in the sequence indicated by the \fIfirst\fR and
\fIlast\fR operands, as affected by \fB-r\fR, with each command preceded by the
command number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Suppresses command numbers when listing with \fB-l\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Reverses the order of the commands listed (with \fB-l\fR \fB)\fR or edited
(with neither \fB-l\fR nor \fB-s\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Re-executes the command without invoking an editor.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
\fBksh93\fR supports the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIeditor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specify the editor to use to edit the history command. A value of \fB-\fR for
\fIeditor\fR is equivalent to specifying the \fB-s\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
List the commands rather than editing and re-executing them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fInum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Start at \fInum\fR commands back.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Suppress the command numbers when the commands are listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Write the result of history expansion for each operand to standard output. All
other options are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Reverse the order of the commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Re-execute the command without invoking an editor. In this case an operand of
the form \fIold=new\fR can be specified to change the first occurrence of the
string \fIold\fR in the command to \fInew\fR before re-executing the command.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfirst\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIlast\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Selects the commands to list or edit. The number of previous commands that can
be accessed is determined by the value of the \fBHISTSIZE\fR variable. The
value of \fIfirst\fR or \fIlast\fR or both is one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB[\fB+\fR]\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A positive number representing a command number. Command numbers can be
displayed with the \fB-l\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A negative decimal number representing the command that was executed
\fInumber\fR of commands previously. For example, \fB\(mi1\fR is the
immediately previous command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A string indicating the most recently entered command that begins with that
string. If the \fIold=new\fR operand is not also specified with \fB-s\fR, the
string form of the \fIfirst\fR operand cannot contain an embedded equal sign.
.sp
When the synopsis form with \fB-s\fR is used, if \fIfirst\fR is omitted, the
previous command is used.
.sp
For the synopsis forms without \fB-s\fR \fB:\fR
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIlast\fR is omitted, \fIlast\fR defaults to the previous command when
\fB-l\fR is specified; otherwise, it defaults to \fIfirst\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIfirst\fR and \fIlast\fR are both omitted, the previous 16 commands is
listed or the previous single command is edited (based on the \fB-l\fR option).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIfirst\fR and \fIlast\fR are both present, all of the commands from
\fIfirst\fR to \fIlast\fR is edited (without \fB-l\fR \fB)\fR or listed (with
\fB-l\fR). Editing multiple commands is accomplished by presenting to the
editor all of the commands at one time, each command starting on a new line. If
\fIfirst\fR represents a newer command than \fIlast\fR, the commands is listed
or edited in reverse sequence, equivalent to using \fB-r\fR. For example, the
following commands on the first line are equivalent to the corresponding
commands on the second:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
fc -r 10 20     fc    30 40
fc   20 10      fc -r 40 30
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When a range of commands is used, it is not be an error to specify \fIfirst\fR
or \fIlast\fR values that are not in the history list. \fBfc\fR substitutes the
value representing the oldest or newest command in the list, as appropriate.
For example, if there are only ten commands in the history list, numbered 1 to
10:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
fc -l
fc 1 99
.fi
.in -2

lists and edits, respectively, all ten commands.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIold=new\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Replace the first occurrence of string \fIold\fR in the commands to be
reexecuted by the string \fInew\fR.
.RE

.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.LP
When the \fB-l\fR option is used to list commands, the format of each command
in the list is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"%d\et%s\en", <\fR\fIline number\fR\fB>, <\fR\fIcommand\fR\fB>\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If both the \fB-l\fR and \fB-n\fR options are specified, the format of each
command is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"\et%s\en", <\fR\fIcommand\fR\fB>\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the \fIcommand\fR\fIcommand\fR consists of more than one line, the lines
after the first are displayed as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"\et%s\en", <\fR\fIcontinued-command\fR\fB>\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing history and fc
.sp
.in +2
.nf
             csh                                     ksh

% history                               $ fc -l
  1   cd /etc                             1   cd /etc
  2   vi passwd                           2   vi passwd
  3   date                                3   date
  4   cd                                  4   cd
  5   du .                                5   du .
  6   ls -t                               6   ls -t
  7   history                             7   fc -l

% !d                                    $ fc -e - d
  du .                                    du .
  262   ./SCCS                            262   ./SCCS
  336   .                                 336   .

% !da                                   $ fc -e - da
  Thu Jul 21 17:29:56 PDT 1994            Thu Jul 21 17:29:56 PDT 1994

%                                       $ alias \e!='fc -e -'

% !!                                    $ !
  date                                    alias ='fc -e -'
  Thu Jul 21 17:29:56 PDT 1994
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBfc\fR: \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and
\fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCEDIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
This variable, when expanded by the shell, determines the default value for the
\fB-e\fR \fIeditor\fR option's \fIeditor\fR option-argument. If \fBFCEDIT\fR is
null or unset, \fBed\fR(1) is used as the editor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHISTFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Determine a pathname naming a command history file. If the \fBHISTFILE\fR
variable is not set, the shell can attempt to access or create a file
\fB\&.sh_history\fR in the user's home directory. If the shell cannot obtain
both read and write access to, or create, the history file, it uses an
unspecified mechanism that allows the history to operate properly. (References
to history ``file'' in this section are understood to mean this unspecified
mechanism in such cases.) \fBfc\fR can choose to access this variable only when
initializing the history file; this initialization occurs when \fBfc\fR or
\fBsh\fR first attempt to retrieve entries from, or add entries to, the file,
as the result of commands issued by the user, the file named by the \fBENV\fR
variable, or a system startup file such as \fB/etc/profile\fR. (The
initialization process for the history file can be dependent on the system
startup files, in that they can contain commands that effectively preempts the
user's settings of \fBHISTFILE\fR and \fBHISTSIZE\fR. For example, function
definition commands are recorded in the history file, unless the \fBset\fR
\fB-o\fR \fBnolog\fR option is set. If the system administrator includes
function definitions in some system startup file called before the \fBENV\fR
file, the history file is initialized before the user gets a chance to
influence its characteristics.) The variable \fBHISTFILE\fR is accessed
initially when the shell is invoked. Any change to \fBHISTFILE\fR does not
take effect until another shell is invoked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHISTSIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Determine a decimal number representing the limit to the number of previous
commands that are accessible. If this variable is unset, an unspecified default
greater than or equal to 128 are used. The variable \fBHISTSIZE\fR is accessed
initially when the shell is invoked. Any changes to \fBHISTSIZE\fR does not
take effect until another shell is invoked.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion of the listing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Otherwise, the exit status is that of the commands executed by \fBfc\fR or
\fBhist\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBed\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBset\fR(1),
\fBsh\fR(1), \fBsource\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5)
