.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH ICONV 1 "Nov 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
iconv \- code set conversion utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR [\fB-cs\fR] \fB-f\fR \fIfrommap\fR \fB-t\fR \fItomap\fR [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR \fB-f\fR \fIfromcode\fR [\fB-cs\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItocode\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR \fB-t\fR \fItocode\fR [\fB-cs\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfromcode\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBiconv\fR \fB-l\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBiconv\fR utility converts the characters or sequences of characters in
\fIfile\fR from one code set to another and writes the results to standard
output. If no conversion exists for a particular character, an
implementation-defined conversion is performed on this character.
.sp
.LP
The list of supported conversions and the locations of the associated
conversion tables are provided in the \fBiconv\fR(5) manual page.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Omits any characters that are invalid in the codeset of the input file from the
output. When \fB-c\fR is not used, the results of encountering invalid
characters in the input stream depend on the specified codesets for the
conversion. Invalid characters can be either those that are not valid
characters in the codeset of the input file or those that have no corresponding
character in the codeset of the output file. The presence or absence of
\fB-c\fR does not affect the exit status of \fBiconv\fR. When \fIfromcode\fR is
specified for the \fIfromcodeset\fR of the \fB-f\fR option or \fItocode\fR is
specified for the \fItocodeset\fR of the \fB-t\fR option, the specification of
\fB-c\fR may be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIfromcodeset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Identifies the code set of the input file. The following two forms of the
\fIfromcodeset\fR option-argument are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfromcode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The \fIfromcode\fR option-argument must not contain a slash (\fB/\fR)
character. It is interpreted as the name of one of the codeset descriptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfrommap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The \fIfrommap\fR option-argument must contain a slash character. It is
interpreted as the pathname of a charmap file as defined in \fBcharmap\fR(5).
If the pathname does not represent a valid, readable charmap file, the results
are undefined.
.RE

If this option is omitted, the codeset of the current locale is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Writes all supported \fIfromcode\fR and \fItocode\fR values to standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Suppresses any messages written to standard error concerning invalid
characters. When \fB-s\fR is not used, the results of encountering invalid
characters in the input stream depend on the specified codesets for the
conversion. Invalid characters can be either those that are not valid
characters in the codeset of the input file or those that have no corresponding
character in the codeset of the output file. The presence or absence of
\fB-s\fR does not affect the exit status of \fBiconv\fR. When \fIfromcode\fR is
specified for the \fIfromcodeset\fR of the \fB-f\fR option or \fItocode\fR is
specified for the \fItocodeset\fR of the \fB-t\fR option, the specification of
\fB-s\fR may be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItocodeset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Identifies the code set used for the output file. The following two forms of
the \fItocodeset\fR option-argument are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItocode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fItocode\fR option-argument must not contain a slash (\fB/\fR) character.
It is interpreted as the name of one of the codeset descriptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItomap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fItomap\fR option-argument must contain a slash character. It is
interpreted as the pathname of a charmap file as defined in \fBcharmap\fR(5).
If the pathname does not represent a valid, readable charmap file, the results
are undefined.
.RE

If this option is omitted, the codeset of the current locale is used.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If either \fB-f\fR or \fB-t\fR represents a charmap file but the other does
not, or is omitted, or if both \fB-f\fR and \fB-t\fR are omitted, \fBiconv\fR
fails as an error.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A path name of an input file. If no file operands are specified, or if a file
operand is '\fB-\fR', the standard input is used.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConverting and storing files
.sp
.LP
The following example converts the contents of file \fBmail1\fR from code set
\fB8859\fR to \fB646fr\fR and stores the results in file \fBmail.local\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBiconv -f 8859 -t 646fr mail1 > mail.local\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBiconv\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
An error has occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/iconv/iconv_data\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
list of conversions supported by conversion tables
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiconv\fR(3C), \fBiconv_open\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBcharmap\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBiconv\fR(5), \fBiconv_unicode\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Make sure that both charmap files use the same symbolic names for characters
the two codesets have in common.
.sp
.LP
The output format of the \fB-l\fR option is unspecified. The \fB-l\fR option is
not intended for shell script usage.
.sp
.LP
When \fIfromcode\fR or \fItocode\fR is specified for the codeset conversion,
\fBiconv\fR uses the \fBiconv_open\fR(3C) function. If \fBiconv_open\fR(3C)
fails to open the specified codeset conversion, \fBiconv\fR searches for an
appropriate conversion table. As for the supported codeset conversion by
\fBiconv_open\fR(3C), please refer to \fBiconv\fR(5) and \fBiconv_locale\fR(5).
