'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IPCRM 1 "Jan 9, 2004"
.SH NAME
ipcrm \- remove a message queue, semaphore set, or shared memory ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBipcrm\fR [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIshmid\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fImsqid\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsemid\fR]
     [\fB-M\fR \fIshmkey\fR] [\fB-Q\fR \fImsgkey\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIsemkey\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBipcrm\fR removes one or more messages, semaphores, or shared memory
identifiers.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Keys specified by other options refer to facilities in the specified zone (see
\fBzones\fR(5)). The default is the zone in which the command is executing.
This option is only useful when the command is executed in the global zone.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The identifiers are specified by the following options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIshmid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes the shared memory identifier \fIshmid\fR from the system. The shared
memory segment and data structure associated with it are destroyed after the
last detach.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR \fImsqid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes the message queue identifier \fImsqid\fR from the system and destroys
the message queue and data structure associated with it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsemid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes the semaphore identifier \fIsemid\fR from the system and destroys the
set of semaphores and data structure associated with it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fIshmkey\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes the shared memory identifier, created with key \fIshmkey\fR, from the
system. The shared memory segment and data structure associated with it are
destroyed after the last detach.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Q\fR \fImsgkey\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes the message queue identifier, created with key \fImsgkey\fR, from the
system and destroys the message queue and data structure associated with it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIsemkey\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Removes the semaphore identifier, created with key \fIsemkey\fR, from the
system and destroys the set of semaphores and data structure associated with
it.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The details of the removes are described in \fBmsgctl\fR(2), \fBshmctl\fR(2),
and \fBsemctl\fR(2). Use the \fBipcs\fR command to find the identifiers and
keys.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See  \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of  \fBipcrm\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBipcs\fR(1), \fBmsgctl\fR(2), \fBmsgget\fR(2), \fBmsgrcv\fR(2),
\fBmsgsnd\fR(2), \fBsemctl\fR(2), \fBsemget\fR(2), \fBsemop\fR(2),
\fBshmctl\fR(2), \fBshmget\fR(2), \fBshmop\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5)
