'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH JOIN 1 "Feb 8, 2000"
.SH NAME
join \- relational database operator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBjoin\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIfilenumber\fR | \fB-v\fR \fIfilenumber\fR] [\fB-1\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR]
     [\fB-2\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIchar\fR] \fIfile1\fR \fIfile2\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBjoin\fR [\fB-a\fR \fIfilenumber\fR] [\fB-j\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR] [\fB-j1\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR]
     [\fB-j2\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-e\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIchar\fR] \fIfile1\fR \fIfile2\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBjoin\fR command forms, on the standard output, a join of the two
relations specified by the lines of \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR.
.sp
.LP
There is one line in the output for each pair of lines in \fIfile1\fR and
\fIfile2\fR that have identical join fields. The output line normally consists
of the common field, then the rest of the line from \fIfile1\fR, then the rest
of the line from \fIfile2\fR. This format can be changed by using the \fB-o\fR
option (see below). The \fB-a\fR option can be used to add unmatched lines to
the output. The \fB-v\fR option can be used to output only unmatched lines.
.sp
.LP
The default input field separators are blank, tab, or new-line. In this case,
multiple separators count as one field separator, and leading separators are
ignored. The default output field separator is a blank.
.sp
.LP
If the input files are not in the appropriate collating sequence, the results
are unspecified.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
Some of the options below use the argument \fIfilenumber\fR. This argument
should be a \fB1\fR or a \fB2\fR referring to either \fIfile1\fR or
\fIfile2\fR, respectively.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIfilenumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
In addition to the normal output, produce a line for each unpairable line in
file \fIfilenumber\fR, where \fIfilenumber\fR is \fB1\fR or \fB2\fR. If both
\fB-a\fR \fB1\fR and \fB-a\fR \fB2\fR are specified, all unpairable lines will
be output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIstring\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Replace empty output fields in the list selected by option \fB-o\fR with the
string \fIstring\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-j\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Equivalent to \fB-1\fR\fIfieldnumber\fR \fB-\fR\fB2\fR\fIfieldnumber\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-j1\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Equivalent to \fB-1\fR\fIfieldnumber\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-j2\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Equivalent to \fB-2\fR\fIfieldnumber\fR. Fields are numbered starting with
\fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Each output line includes the fields specified in \fIlist\fR. Fields selected
by \fIlist\fR that do not appear in the input will be treated as empty output
fields. (See the \fB-e\fR option.) Each element of which has the either the
form \fIfilenumber\fR\fB\&.\fR\fIfieldnumber\fR\fB,\fR or \fB0\fR, which
represents the \fBjoin\fR field. The common field is not printed unless
specifically requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIchar\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Use character \fIchar\fR as a separator. Every appearance of \fIchar\fR in a
line is significant. The character \fIchar\fR is used as the field separator
for both input and output. With this option specified, the collating term
should be the same as \fBsort\fR without the \fB-b\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fIfilenumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Instead of the default output, produce a line only for each unpairable line in
\fIfilenumber\fR, where \fIfilenumber\fR is \fB1\fR or \fB2\fR. If both
\fB-v\fR \fB1\fR and \fB-v\fR \fB2\fR are specified, all unpairable lines will
be output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-1\fR \fIfieldnumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Join on the \fIfieldnumber\fRth field of file 1. Fields are decimal integers
starting with \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-2\fR\fIfieldnumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Join on the \fIfieldnumber\fRth field of file 2. Fields are decimal integers
starting with \fB1\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile2\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A path name of a file to be joined. If either of the \fIfile1\fR or \fIfile2\fR
operands is \fB\(mi\fR, the standard input is used in its place.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR must be sorted in increasing collating sequence as
determined by \fBLC_COLLATE\fR on the fields on which they are to be joined,
normally the first in each line (see \fBsort\fR(1)).
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBjoin\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRJoining the password file and group file
.sp
.LP
The following command line will join the password file and the group file,
matching on the numeric group ID, and outputting the login name, the group name
and the login directory. It is assumed that the files have been sorted in
\fBASCII\fR collating sequence on the group ID fields.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBjoin -j1 4-j2 3 -o 1.1 2.1 1.6 -t:/etc/passwd /etc/group\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUsing the -o option
.sp
.LP
The \fB-o\fR \fB0\fR field essentially selects the union of the join fields.
For example, given file \fBphone\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
!Name           Phone Number
Don             +1 123-456-7890
Hal             +1 234-567-8901
Yasushi         +2 345-678-9012
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
and file \fBfax\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
!Name           Fax Number

Don             +1 123-456-7899

Keith           +1 456-789-0122

Yasushi         +2 345-678-9011
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where the large expanses of white space are meant to each represent a single
tab character), the command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBjoin -t"\fItab\fR" -a 1 -a 2 -e '(unknown)' -o 0,1.2,2.2 phone fax\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
would produce

.sp
.in +2
.nf
!Name           Phone Number           Fax Number
Don             +1 123-456-7890         +1 123-456-7899
Hal             +1 234-567-8901         (unknown
Keith           (unknown)               +1 456-789-012
Yasushi         +2 345-678-9012         +2 345-678-9011
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBjoin\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBLC_COLLATE\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
All input files were output successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBawk\fR(1), \fBcomm\fR(1), \fBsort\fR(1), \fBuniq\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
With default field separation, the collating sequence is that of \fBsort\fR
\fB-\fR\fBb\fR; with \fB-t\fR, the sequence is that of a plain sort.
.sp
.LP
The conventions of the \fBjoin\fR, \fBsort\fR, \fBcomm\fR, \fBuniq\fR, and
\fBawk\fR commands are wildly incongruous.
