'\" te
.\" Copyright 1987, 1989 by the Student Information Processing Board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.  For copying and distribution information,  please see the file kerberosv5/mit-sipb-copyright.h.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH KPASSWD 1 "Jul 30, 2001"
.SH NAME
kpasswd \- change a user's Kerberos password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/kpasswd\fR [\fIprincipal\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBkpasswd\fR command is used to change a Kerberos principal's password.
\fBkpasswd\fR prompts for the current Kerberos password, which is used to
obtain a \fBchangepw\fR ticket from the \fBKDC\fR for the user's Kerberos
realm. If \fBkpasswd\fR successfully obtains the \fBchangepw\fR ticket, the
user is prompted twice for the new password, and the password is changed.
.sp
.LP
If the principal is governed by a policy that specifies the length and/or
number of character classes required in the new password, the new password must
conform to the policy. (The five character classes are lower case, upper case,
numbers, punctuation, and all other characters.)
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprincipal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Change the password for the Kerberos principal \fIprincipal\fR. Otherwise, the
principal is derived from the identity of the user invoking the \fBkpasswd\fR
command.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/ovsec_adm.\fIxxxxxx\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Temporary credentials cache for the lifetime of the password changing
operation. (\fIxxxxxx\fR is a random string.)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBkerberos\fR(5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
If \fBkpasswd\fR is suspended, the \fBchangepw\fR tickets may not be destroyed.
