.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Dec 20, 2014
.Dt KVMSTAT 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kvmstat
.Nd report KVM statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm kvmstat
.Oo
.Ar interval
.Op Ar count
.Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reports the activity of running KVM virtual machines and their exit activity,
injected interrupts, emulations, and more, on a per virtual CPU basis.
.Lp
.Nm
should be used when trying to get a rough sense of guest activity from the
hypervisor's perspective, and allows one to understand from a low-level
perspective, what kind of activity is going on inside of the virtual machine. In
addition,
.Nm
is useful for diagnosing reports of pathological or faulty behavior inside of
guests. While there is no expected range of values for the fields displayed as
that varies with the use of virtual machines, if all of the virtual CPUs for a
given virtual machine are consistently zero, then that may indicate that a
problem has occurred, for example, a panic inside of the guest or a bug in the
hypervisor.
.Lp
If no operands are specified, then
.Nm
will display statistics every second until the program is terminated.
.Ss Output Fields
Every
.Ar interval
.Nm
will report data with the following fields:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Nm pid
Identifier of the process controlling the virtual CPU.
.It Nm vcpu
Virtual CPU identifier relative to its virtual machine.
.It Nm exits
Count of all virtual machine exits for the virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm haltx
Count of virtual machine exits due to the guest executing the
.Sy HLT
instruction for the virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm irqx
Count of virtual machine exits due to a pending external interrupt arriving
on the physical CPU that the virtual CPU was actively running on over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm irqwx
Count of virtual machine exits due to an open interrupt window on the
virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm iox
Count of virtual machine exits due to the execution of an I/O instruction,
such as
.Sy inb ,
on the virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm mmiox
Count of virtual machine exits due to performing memory mapped I/O on the
virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm irqs
Count of interrupts injected into the virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm emul
Count of instructions the hypervisor had to emulate on behalf of the guest
virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.It Nm eptv
Count of extended page table violations serviced on the virtual CPU over
.Ar interval .
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -hang -width Ds
.It Ar count
.Bd -filled -compact
Specifies the number of times that the statistics are repeated. If not
specified,
.Nm
will continue until it is terminated.
.Ed
.It Ar interval
.Bd -filled -compact
Specifies the number of seconds between reports of statistics. If not specified,
reports are generated every second.
.Ed
.El
.Sh STABILITY
The arguments are
.Sy committed ,
while the output format is
.Sy Not an interface .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr iostat 1M ,
.Xr mpstat 1M ,
.Xr attributes 5
