'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LAST 1 "Jul 24, 2004"
.SH NAME
last \- display login and logout information about users and terminals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBlast\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR | \fB-number\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIfilename\fR]
     [\fIname\fR | \fItty\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlast\fR command looks in the \fB/var/adm/wtmpx\fR file, which records
all logins and logouts, for information about a user, a terminal, or any group
of users and terminals. Arguments specify names of users or terminals of
interest. If multiple arguments are given, the information applicable to any of
the arguments is printed. For example, \fBlast\fR \fBroot\fR \fBconsole\fR
lists all of root's sessions, as well as all sessions on the console terminal.
\fBlast\fR displays the sessions of the specified users and terminals, most
recent first, indicating the times at which the session began, the duration of
the session, and the terminal on which the session took place. \fBlast\fR also
indicates whether the session is continuing or was cut short by a reboot.
.sp
.LP
The pseudo-user reboot logs in when the system is shutdown and when it reboots.
Thus,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
last reboot
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
gives an approximate record of when the operating system instance was shutdown
and when it rebooted. This can be used to calculate the availability of the
operating system over time.
.sp
.LP
\fBlast\fR with no arguments displays a record of all logins and logouts, in
reverse order.
.sp
.LP
If \fBlast\fR is interrupted, it indicates how far the search has progressed in
\fB/var/adm/wtmpx\fR. If interrupted with a quit signal (generated by a
CTRL\(mi\e), \fBlast\fR indicates how far the search has progressed, and then
continues the search.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Displays the hostname in the last column.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI filename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Uses \fIfilename\fR as the name of the accounting file instead of
\fB/var/adm/wtmpx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI number\||\|\fR\fB-\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Limits the number of entries displayed to that specified by \fInumber\fR. These
options are identical; the \fB-\fR\fInumber\fR option is provided as a
transition tool only and is removed in future releases.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
Date and time format is based on locale specified by the \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_TIME\fR, or \fBLANG\fR environments, in that order of priority.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/wtmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
accounting file
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fButmpx\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
