'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2012, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LD 1 "Sep 10, 2013"
.SH NAME
ld \- link-editor for object files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBld\fR [\fB-32\fR | \fB-64\fR] [\fB-a\fR | \fB-r\fR] [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-B\fRdirect | nodirect]
[\fB-B\fR dynamic | static] [\fB-B\fR eliminate] [\fB-B\fR group] [\fB-B\fR local]
[\fB-B\fR reduce] [\fB-B\fR symbolic] [\fB-c\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-C\fR] [\fB-d\fR y | n]
[\fB-D\fR \fItoken\fR,...] [\fB-e\fR \fIepsym\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIname\fR | \fB-F\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-G\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIname\fR]
[\fB-i\fR] [\fB-I\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIx\fR] [\fB-L\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-m\fR] [\fB-M\fR \fImapfile\fR]
[\fB-N\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoutfile\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIauditlib\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIauditlib\fR]
[\fB-Q\fR y | n] [\fB-R\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-S\fR \fIsupportlib\fR] [\fB-t\fR]
[\fB-u\fR \fIsymname\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-Y P\fR\fI,dirlist\fR] [\fB-z\fR absexec]
[\fB-z\fR allextract | defaultextract | weakextract ] [\fB-z\fR altexec64]
[\fB-z\fR assert-deflib ] [ \fB-z\fR assert-deflib=\fIlibname\fR ]
[\fB-z\fR combreloc | nocombreloc ] [\fB-z\fR defs | nodefs]
[\fB-z\fR direct | nodirect] [\fB-z\fR endfiltee]
[\fB-z\fR fatal-warnings | nofatal-warnings ] [\fB-z\fR finiarray=\fIfunction\fR]
[\fB-z\fR globalaudit] [\fB-z\fR groupperm | nogroupperm] 
[\fB-z\fR guidance[=\fIid1\fR,\fIid2\fR...] [\fB-z\fR help ]
[\fB-z\fR ignore | record] [\fB-z\fR initarray=\fIfunction\fR] [\fB-z\fR initfirst]
[\fB-z\fR interpose] [\fB-z\fR lazyload | nolazyload]
[\fB-z\fR ld32=\fIarg1\fR,\fIarg2\fR,...] [\fB-z\fR ld64=\fIarg1\fR,\fIarg2\fR,...]
[\fB-z\fR loadfltr] [\fB-z\fR muldefs] [\fB-z\fR nocompstrtab] [\fB-z\fR nodefaultlib]
[\fB-z\fR nodelete] [\fB-z\fR nodlopen] [\fB-z\fR nodump] [\fB-z\fR noldynsym]
[\fB-z\fR nopartial] [\fB-z\fR noversion] [\fB-z\fR now] [\fB-z\fR origin]
[\fB-z\fR preinitarray=\fIfunction\fR] [\fB-z\fR redlocsym] [\fB-z\fR relaxreloc]
[\fB-z\fR rescan-now] [\fB-z\fR recan] [\fB-z\fR rescan-start \fI\&...\fR \fB-z\fR rescan-end]]
[\fB-z\fR target=sparc|x86] [\fB-z\fR text | textwarn | textoff]
[\fB-z\fR verbose] [\fB-z\fR wrap=\fIsymbol\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The link-editor, \fBld\fR, combines relocatable object files by resolving
symbol references to symbol definitions, together with performing relocations.
\fBld\fR operates in two modes, static or dynamic, as governed by the \fB-d\fR
option. In all cases, the output of \fBld\fR is left in the file \fBa.out\fR by
default. See NOTES.
.sp
.LP
In dynamic mode, \fB-dy\fR, the default, relocatable object files that are
provided as arguments are combined to produce an executable object file. This
file is linked at execution with any shared object files that are provided as
arguments. If the \fB-G\fR option is specified, relocatable object files are
combined to produce a shared object. Without the \fB-G\fR option, a dynamic
executable is created.
.sp
.LP
In static mode, \fB-dn\fR, relocatable object files that are provided as
arguments are combined to produce a static executable file. If the \fB-r\fR
option is specified, relocatable object files are combined to produce one
relocatable object file. See \fBStatic Executables\fR.
.sp
.LP
Dynamic linking is the most common model for combining relocatable objects, and
the eventual creation of processes within Solaris. This environment tightly
couples the work of the link-editor and the runtime linker, \fBld.so.1\fR(1).
Both of these utilities, together with their related technologies and
utilities, are extensively documented in the \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.sp
.LP
If any argument is a library, \fBld\fR by default searches the library exactly
once at the point the library is encountered on the argument list. The library
can be either a shared object or relocatable archive. See \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD)).
.sp
.LP
A shared object consists of an indivisible, whole unit that has been generated
by a previous link-edit of one or more input files. When the link-editor
processes a shared object, the entire contents of the shared object become a
logical part of the resulting output file image. The shared object is not
physically copied during the link-edit as its actual inclusion is deferred
until process execution. This logical inclusion means that all symbol entries
defined in the shared object are made available to the link-editing process.
See Chapter 4, \fIShared Objects,\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
For an archive library, \fBld\fR loads only those routines that define an
unresolved external reference. \fBld\fR searches the symbol table of the
archive library sequentially to resolve external references that can be
satisfied by library members. This search is repeated until no external
references can be resolved by the archive. Thus, the order of members in the
library is functionally unimportant, unless multiple library members exist that
define the same external symbol. Archive libraries that have interdependencies
can require multiple command line definitions, or the use of one of the
\fB-z\fR \fBrescan\fR options. See \fIArchive Processing\fR in \fILinker and
Libraries Guide\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBld\fR is a cross link-editor, able to link 32-bit objects or 64-bit objects,
for Sparc or x86 targets. \fBld\fR uses the \fBELF\fR class and machine type of
the first relocatable object on the command line to govern the mode in which to
operate. The mixing of 32-bit objects and 64-bit objects is not permitted.
Similarly, only objects of a single machine type are allowed. See the
\fB-32\fR, \fB-64\fR and \fB-z target\fR options, and the \fBLD_NOEXEC_64\fR
environment variable.
.SS "Static Executables"
.sp
.LP
The creation of static executables has been discouraged for many releases. In
fact, 64-bit system archive libraries have never been provided. Because a
static executable is built against system archive libraries, the executable
contains system implementation details. This self-containment has a number of
drawbacks.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The executable is immune to the benefits of system patches delivered as shared
objects. The executable therefore, must be rebuilt to take advantage of many
system improvements.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The ability of the executable to run on future releases can be compromised.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The duplication of system implementation details negatively affects system
performance.
.RE
.sp
.LP
With Solaris 10, 32-bit system archive libraries are no longer provided.
Without these libraries, specifically \fBlibc.a\fR, the creation of static
executables is no longer achievable without specialized system knowledge.
However, the capability of \fBld\fR to process static linking options, and the
processing of archive libraries, remains unchanged.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-32\fR | \fB-64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates a 32-bit, or 64-bit object.
.sp
By default, the class of the object being generated is determined from the
first \fBELF\fR object processed from the command line. If no objects are
specified, the class is determined by the first object encountered within the
first archive processed from the command line. If there are no objects or
archives, the link-editor creates a 32-bit object.
.sp
The \fB-64\fR option is required to create a 64-bit object solely from a
mapfile.
.sp
This \fB-32\fR or \fB-64\fR options can also be used in the rare case of
linking entirely from an archive that contains a mixture of 32 and 64-bit
objects. If the first object in the archive is not the class of the object that
is required to be created, then the \fB-32\fR or \fB-64\fR option can be used
to direct the link-editor. See \fIThe 32-bit link-editor and 64-bit
link-editor\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In static mode only, produces an executable object file. Undefined references
are not permitted. This option is the default behavior for static mode. The
\fB-a\fR option can not be used with the \fB-r\fR option. See \fBStatic
Executables\fR under DESCRIPTION.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only, provides no special processing for dynamic executable
relocations that reference symbols in shared objects. Without the \fB-b\fR
option, the link-editor applies techniques within a dynamic executable so that
the text segment can remain read-only. One technique is the creation of special
position-independent relocations for references to functions that are defined
in shared objects. Another technique arranges for data objects that are defined
in shared objects to be copied into the memory image of an executable at
runtime.
.sp
The \fB-b\fR option is intended for specialized dynamic objects and is not
recommended for general use. Its use suppresses all specialized processing
required to ensure an object's shareability, and can even prevent the
relocation of 64-bit executables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBdirect\fR | \fBnodirect\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
These options govern direct binding. \fB-B\fR \fBdirect\fR establishes direct
binding information by recording the relationship between each symbol reference
together with the dependency that provides the definition. In addition, direct
binding information is established between each symbol reference and an
associated definition within the object being created. The runtime linker uses
this information to search directly for a symbol in the associated object
rather than to carry out a default symbol search.
.sp
Direct binding information can only be established to dependencies specified
with the link-edit. Thus, you should use the \fB-z\fR \fBdefs\fR option.
Objects that wish to interpose on symbols in a direct binding environment
should identify themselves as interposers with the \fB-z\fR \fBinterpose\fR
option. The use of \fB-B\fR \fBdirect\fR enables \fB-z\fR \fBlazyload\fR for
all dependencies.
.sp
The \fB-B\fR \fBnodirect\fR option prevents any direct binding to the
interfaces offered by the object being created. The object being created can
continue to directly bind to external interfaces by specifying the \fB-z\fR
\fBdirect\fR option. See Appendix D, \fIDirect Bindings,\fR in \fILinker and
Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBdynamic\fR | \fBstatic\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Options governing library inclusion. \fB-B\fR \fBdynamic\fR is valid in dynamic
mode only. These options can be specified any number of times on the command
line as toggles: if the \fB-B\fR \fBstatic\fR option is given, no shared
objects are accepted until \fB-B\fR \fBdynamic\fR is seen. See the \fB-l\fR
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBeliminate\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes any global symbols, not assigned to a version definition, to be
eliminated from the symbol table. Version definitions can be supplied by means
of a \fBmapfile\fR to indicate the global symbols that should remain visible in
the generated object. This option achieves the same symbol elimination as the
\fIauto-elimination\fR directive that is available as part of a \fBmapfile\fR
version definition. This option can be useful when combining versioned and
non-versioned relocatable objects. See also the \fB-B\fR \fBlocal\fR option and
the \fB-B\fR \fBreduce\fR option. See \fIDefining Additional Symbols with a
mapfile\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Establishes a shared object and its dependencies as a group. Objects within the
group are bound to other members of the group at runtime. This mode is similar
to adding the object to the process by using \fBdlopen\fR(3C) with the
\fBRTLD_GROUP\fR mode. An object that has an explicit dependency on a object
identified as a group, becomes a member of the group.
.sp
As the group must be self contained, use of the \fB-B\fR \fBgroup\fR option
also asserts the \fB-z\fR \fBdefs\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBlocal\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes any global symbols, not assigned to a version definition, to be reduced
to local. Version definitions can be supplied by means of a \fBmapfile\fR to
indicate the global symbols that should remain visible in the generated object.
This option achieves the same symbol reduction as the \fIauto-reduction\fR
directive that is available as part of a \fBmapfile\fR version definition. This
option can be useful when combining versioned and non-versioned relocatable
objects. See also the \fB-B\fR \fBeliminate\fR option and the \fB-B\fR
\fBreduce\fR option. See \fIDefining Additional Symbols with a mapfile\fR in
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBreduce\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When generating a relocatable object, causes the reduction of symbolic
information defined by any version definitions. Version definitions can be
supplied by means of a \fBmapfile\fR to indicate the global symbols that should
remain visible in the generated object. By default, when a relocatable object
is generated, version definitions are only recorded in the output image. The
actual reduction of symbolic information is carried out when the object is used
in the construction of a dynamic executable or shared object. The \fB-B\fR
\fBreduce\fR option is applied automatically when a dynamic executable or
shared object is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR \fBsymbolic\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only. When building a shared object, binds references to global
symbols to their definitions, if available, within the object. Normally,
references to global symbols within shared objects are not bound until runtime,
even if definitions are available. This model allows definitions of the same
symbol in an executable or other shared object to override the object's own
definition. \fBld\fR issues warnings for undefined symbols unless \fB-z\fR
\fBdefs\fR overrides.
.sp
The \fB-B\fR \fBsymbolic\fR option is intended for specialized dynamic objects
and is not recommended for general use. To reduce the runtime relocation
processing that is required an object, the creation of a version definition is
recommended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Records the configuration file \fIname\fR for use at runtime. Configuration
files can be employed to alter default search paths, provide a directory cache,
together with providing alternative object dependencies. See \fBcrle\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Demangles C++ symbol names displayed in diagnostic messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fBy\fR | \fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When \fB-d\fR \fBy\fR, the default, is specified, \fBld\fR uses dynamic
linking. When \fB-d\fR \fBn\fR is specified, \fBld\fR uses static linking. See
\fBStatic Executables\fR under DESCRIPTION, and \fB-B\fR
\fBdynamic\fR|\fBstatic\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fItoken\fR,...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints debugging information as specified by each \fItoken\fR, to the standard
error. The special token \fBhelp\fR indicates the full list of tokens
available. See \fIDebugging Aids\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fIepsym\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--entry\fR \fIepsym\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets the entry point address for the output file to be the symbol \fIepsym\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--auxiliary\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Useful only when building a shared object. Specifies that the symbol table of
the shared object is used as an auxiliary filter on the symbol table of the
shared object specified by \fIname\fR. Multiple instances of this option are
allowed. This option can not be combined with the \fB-F\fR option. See
\fIGenerating Auxiliary Filters\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--filter\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Useful only when building a shared object. Specifies that the symbol table of
the shared object is used as a filter on the symbol table of the shared object
specified by \fIname\fR. Multiple instances of this option are allowed. This
option can not be combined with the \fB-f\fR option. See \fIGenerating Standard
Filters\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-G\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-shared\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only, produces a shared object. Undefined symbols are allowed.
See Chapter 4, \fIShared Objects,\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--soname\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only, when building a shared object, records \fIname\fR in the
object's dynamic section. \fIname\fR is recorded in any dynamic objects that
are linked with this object rather than the object's file system name.
Accordingly, \fIname\fR is used by the runtime linker as the name of the shared
object to search for at runtime. See \fIRecording a Shared Object Name\fR in
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ignores \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR. This option is useful when an
\fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR setting is in effect to influence the runtime library
search, which would interfere with the link-editing being performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--dynamic-linker\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When building an executable, uses \fIname\fR as the path name of the
interpreter to be written into the program header. The default in static mode
is no interpreter. In dynamic mode, the default is the name of the runtime
linker, \fBld.so.1\fR(1). Either case can be overridden by \fB-I\fR \fIname\fR.
\fBexec\fR(2) loads this interpreter when the \fBa.out\fR is loaded, and passes
control to the interpreter rather than to the \fBa.out\fR directly.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIx\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--library\fR \fIx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Searches a library \fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.so\fR or \fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.a\fR,
the conventional names for shared object and archive libraries, respectively.
In dynamic mode, unless the \fB-B\fR \fBstatic\fR option is in effect, \fBld\fR
searches each directory specified in the library search path for a
\fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.so\fR or \fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.a\fR file. The directory
search stops at the first directory containing either. \fBld\fR chooses the
file ending in \fB\&.so\fR if \fB-l\fR\fIx\fR expands to two files with names
of the form \fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.so\fR and \fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.a\fR. If no
\fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.so\fR is found, then \fBld\fR accepts
\fBlib\fR\fIx\fR\fB\&.a\fR. In static mode, or when the \fB-B\fR \fBstatic\fR
option is in effect, \fBld\fR selects only the file ending in \fB\&.a\fR.
\fBld\fR searches a library when the library is encountered, so the placement
of \fB-l\fR is significant. See \fILinking With Additional Libraries\fR in
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--library-path\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Adds \fIpath\fR to the library search directories. \fBld\fR searches for
libraries first in any directories specified by the \fB-L\fR options and then
in the standard directories. This option is useful only if the option precedes
the \fB-l\fR options to which the \fB-L\fR option applies. See \fIDirectories
Searched by the Link-Editor\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.sp
The environment variable \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR can be used to supplement the
library search path, however the \fB-L\fR option is recommended, as the
environment variable is also interpreted by the runtime environment. See
\fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR under ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Produces a memory map or listing of the input/output sections, together with
any non-fatal multiply-defined symbols, on the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fImapfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reads \fImapfile\fR as a text file of directives to \fBld\fR. This option can
be specified multiple times. If \fImapfile\fR is a directory, then all regular
files, as defined by \fBstat\fR(2), within the directory are processed. See
Chapter 9, \fIMapfile Option,\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR. Example
mapfiles are provided in \fB/usr/lib/ld\fR. See FILES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option causes a \fBDT_NEEDED\fR entry to be added to the \fB\&.dynamic\fR
section of the object being built. The value of the \fBDT_NEEDED\fR string is
the \fIstring\fR that is specified on the command line. This option is position
dependent, and the \fBDT_NEEDED\fR \fB\&.dynamic\fR entry is relative to the
other dynamic dependencies discovered on the link-edit line. This option is
useful for specifying dependencies within device driver relocatable objects
when combined with the \fB-dy\fR and \fB-r\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIoutfile\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--output\fR \fIoutfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Produces an output object file that is named \fIoutfile\fR. The name of the
default object file is \fBa.out\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIauditlib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies an audit library, \fIauditlib\fR. This audit library is used to
audit the object being created at runtime. A shared object identified as
requiring auditing with the \fB-p\fR option, has this requirement inherited by
any object that specifies the shared object as a dependency. See the \fB-P\fR
option. See \fIRuntime Linker Auditing Interface\fR in \fILinker and Libraries
Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR \fIauditlib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Identifies an audit library, \fIauditlib\fR. This audit library is used to
audit the dependencies of the object being created at runtime. Dependency
auditing can also be inherited from dependencies that are identified as
requiring auditing. See the \fB-p\fR option, and the \fB-z\fR \fBglobalaudit\fR
option. See \fIRuntime Linker Auditing Interface\fR in \fILinker and Libraries
Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Q\fR \fBy\fR | \fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Under \fB-Q\fR \fBy\fR, an \fBident\fR string is added to the \fB\&.comment\fR
section of the output file. This string identifies the version of the \fBld\fR
used to create the file. This results in multiple \fBld\fR \fBidents\fR when
there have been multiple linking steps, such as when using \fBld\fR \fB-r\fR.
This identification is identical with the default action of the \fBcc\fR
command. \fB-Q\fR \fBn\fR suppresses version identification. \fB\&.comment\fR
sections can be manipulated by the \fBmcs\fR(1) utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--relocatable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Combines relocatable object files to produce one relocatable object file.
\fBld\fR does not complain about unresolved references. This option cannot be
used with the \fB-a\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-rpath\fR \fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A colon-separated list of directories used to specify library search
directories to the runtime linker. If present and not NULL, the path is
recorded in the output object file and passed to the runtime linker. Multiple
instances of this option are concatenated together with each \fIpath\fR
separated by a colon. See \fIDirectories Searched by the Runtime Linker\fR in
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.sp
The use of a runpath within an associated object is preferable to setting
global search paths such as through the \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR environment
variable. Only the runpaths that are necessary to find the objects dependencies
should be recorded. \fBldd\fR(1) can also be used to discover unused runpaths
in dynamic objects, when used with the \fB-U\fR option.
.sp
Various tokens can also be supplied with a runpath that provide a flexible
means of identifying system capabilities or an objects location. See Appendix
C, \fIEstablishing Dependencies with Dynamic String Tokens,\fR in \fILinker and
Libraries Guide\fR. The \fB$ORIGIN\fR token is especially useful in allowing
dynamic objects to be relocated to different locations in the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--strip-all\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Strips symbolic information from the output file. Any debugging information,
that is, \fB\&.line\fR, \fB\&.debug*\fR, and \fB\&.stab*\fR sections, and their
associated relocation entries are removed. Except for relocatable files, a
symbol table \fBSHT_SYMTAB\fR and its associated string table section are not
created in the output object file. The elimination of a \fBSHT_SYMTAB\fR symbol
table can reduce the \fB\&.stab*\fR debugging information that is generated
using the compiler drivers \fB-g\fR option. See the \fB-z\fR \fBredlocsym\fR
and \fB-z\fR \fBnoldynsym\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIsupportlib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The shared object \fIsupportlib\fR is loaded with \fBld\fR and given
information regarding the linking process. Shared objects that are defined by
using the \fB-S\fR option can also be supplied using the \fBSGS_SUPPORT\fR
environment variable. See \fILink-Editor Support Interface\fR in \fILinker and
Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Turns off the warning for multiply-defined symbols that have different sizes or
different alignments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIsymname\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--undefined\fR \fIsymname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enters \fIsymname\fR as an undefined symbol in the symbol table. This option is
useful for loading entirely from an archive library. In this instance, an
unresolved reference is needed to force the loading of the first routine. The
placement of this option on the command line is significant. This option must
be placed before the library that defines the symbol. See \fIDefining
Additional Symbols with the u option\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--version\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Outputs a message giving information about the version of \fBld\fR being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Y\fR \fBP,\fR\fIdirlist\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Changes the default directories used for finding libraries. \fIdirlist\fR is a
colon-separated path list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBabsexec\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Useful only when building a dynamic executable. Specifies that references to
external absolute symbols should be resolved immediately instead of being left
for resolution at runtime. In very specialized circumstances, this option
removes text relocations that can result in excessive swap space demands by an
executable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBallextract\fR | \fBdefaultextract\fR | \fBweakextract\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--whole-archive\fR | \fB--no-whole-archive\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Alters the extraction criteria of objects from any archives that follow. By
default, archive members are extracted to satisfy undefined references and to
promote tentative definitions with data definitions. Weak symbol references do
not trigger extraction. Under the \fB-z\fR \fBallextract\fR or
\fB--whole-archive\fR options, all archive members are extracted from the
archive. Under \fB-z\fR \fBweakextract\fR, weak references trigger archive
extraction. The \fB-z\fR \fBdefaultextract\fR or \fB--no-whole-archive\fR
options provide a means of returning to the default following use of the former
extract options. See \fIArchive Processing\fR in \fILinker and Libraries
Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBaltexec64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Execute the 64-bit \fBld\fR. The creation of very large 32-bit objects can
exhaust the virtual memory that is available to the 32-bit \fBld\fR. The
\fB-z\fR \fBaltexec64\fR option can be used to force the use of the associated
64-bit \fBld\fR. The 64-bit \fBld\fR provides a larger virtual address space
for building 32-bit objects. See \fIThe 32-bit link-editor and 64-bit
link-editor\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBcombreloc\fR | \fBnocombreloc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
By default, \fBld\fR combines multiple relocation sections when building
executables or shared objects. This section combination differs from
relocatable objects, in which relocation sections are maintained in a
one-to-one relationship with the sections to which the relocations must be
applied. The \fB-z\fR \fBnocombreloc\fR option disables this merging of
relocation sections, and preserves the one-to-one relationship found in the
original relocatable objects.
.sp
\fBld\fR sorts the entries of data relocation sections by their symbol
reference. This sorting reduces runtime symbol lookup. When multiple relocation
sections are combined, this sorting produces the least possible relocation
overhead when objects are loaded into memory, and speeds the runtime loading of
dynamic objects.
.sp
Historically, the individual relocation sections were carried over to any
executable or shared object, and the \fB-z\fR \fBcombreloc\fR option was
required to enable the relocation section merging previously described.
Relocation section merging is now the default. The \fB-z\fR \fBcombreloc\fR
option is still accepted for the benefit of old build environments, but the
option is unnecessary, and has no effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBassert-deflib\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBassert-deflib=\fR\fIlibname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables warnings that check the location of where libraries passed in with
\fB-l\fR are found. If the link-editor finds a library on its default search
path it will emit a warning. This warning can be made fatal in conjunction with
the option \fB-z fatal-warnings\fR. Passing \fIlibname\fR white lists a library
from this check. The library must be the full name of the library, e.g.
\fIlibc.so\fR. To white list multiple libraries, the \fB-z
assert-deflib=\fR\fIlibname\fR option can be repeated multiple times. This
option is useful when trying to build self-contained objects where a referenced
library might exist in the default system library path and in alternate paths
specified by \fB-L\fR, but you only want the alternate paths to be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBdefs\fR | \fBnodefs\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--no-undefined\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fB-z\fR \fBdefs\fR option and the \fB--no-undefined\fR option force a
fatal error if any undefined symbols remain at the end of the link. This mode
is the default when an executable is built. For historic reasons, this mode is
\fBnot\fR the default when building a shared object. Use of the \fB-z\fR
\fBdefs\fR option is recommended, as this mode assures the object being built
is self-contained. A self-contained object has all symbolic references resolved
internally, or to the object's immediate dependencies.
.sp
The \fB-z\fR \fBnodefs\fR option allows undefined symbols. For historic
reasons, this mode is the default when a shared object is built. When used with
executables, the behavior of references to such undefined symbols is
unspecified. Use of the \fB-z\fR \fBnodefs\fR option is not recommended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBdirect\fR | \fBnodirect\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables direct binding to any dependencies that follow on the
command line. These options allow finer control over direct binding than the
global counterpart \fB-B\fR \fBdirect\fR. The \fB-z\fR \fBdirect\fR option also
differs from the \fB-B\fR \fBdirect\fR option in the following areas. Direct
binding information is not established between a symbol reference and an
associated definition within the object being created. Lazy loading is not
enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBendfiltee\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a filtee so that when processed by a filter, the filtee terminates any
further filtee searches by the filter. See \fIReducing Filtee Searches\fR in
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBfatal-warnings\fR | \fBnofatal-warnings\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--fatal-warnings\fR | \fB--no-fatal-warnings\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls the behavior of warnings emitted from the link-editor. Setting \fB-z
fatal-warnings\fR promotes warnings emitted by the link-editor to fatal errors
that will cause the link-editor to fail before linking. \fB-z
nofatal-warnings\fR instead demotes these warnings such that they will not cause
the link-editor to exit prematurely.
.RE


.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBfiniarray=\fR\fIfunction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Appends an entry to the \fB\&.finiarray\fR section of the object being built.
If no \fB\&.finiarray\fR section is present, a section is created. The new
entry is initialized to point to \fIfunction\fR. See \fIInitialization and
Termination Sections\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBglobalaudit\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option supplements an audit library definition that has been recorded with
the \fB-P\fR option. This option is only meaningful when building a dynamic
executable. Audit libraries that are defined within an object with the \fB-P\fR
option typically allow for the auditing of the immediate dependencies of the
object. The \fB-z\fR \fBglobalaudit\fR promotes the auditor to a global
auditor, thus allowing the auditing of all dependencies. See \fIInvoking the
Auditing Interface\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.sp
An auditor established with the \fB-P\fR option and the \fB-z\fR
\fBglobalaudit\fR option, is equivalent to the auditor being established with
the \fBLD_AUDIT\fR environment variable. See \fBld.so.1\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBgroupperm\fR | \fBnogroupperm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Assigns, or deassigns each dependency that follows to a unique group. The
assignment of a dependency to a group has the same effect as if the dependency
had been built using the \fB-B\fR \fBgroup\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-z\fR \fBguidance\fR[=\fIid1\fR,\fIid2\fR...]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Give messages suggesting link-editor features that could improve the resulting
dynamic object.
.LP
Specific classes of suggestion can be silenced by specifying an optional comma separated
list of guidance identifiers.
.LP
The current classes of suggestion provided are:

.sp
.ne 2
.na
Enable use of direct binding
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suggests that \fB-z direct\fR or \fB-B direct\fR be present prior to any
specified dependency.  This allows predictable symbol binding at runtime.

Can be disabled with \fB-z guidance=nodirect\fR 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
Enable lazy dependency loading
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suggests that \fB-z lazyload\fR be present prior to any specified dependency.
This allows the dynamic object to be loaded more quickly.

Can be disabled with \fB-z guidance=nolazyload\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
Shared objects should define all their dependencies.
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suggests that \fB-z defs\fR be specified on the link-editor command line.
Shared objects that explicitly state all their dependencies behave more
predictably when used.

Can be be disabled with \fB-z guidance=nodefs\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
Version 2 mapfile syntax
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suggests that any specified mapfiles use the more readable version 2 syntax.

Can be disabled with \fB-z guidance=nomapfile\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
Read-only text segment
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Should any runtime relocations within the text segment exist, suggests that
the object be compiled with position independent code (PIC).  Keeping large
allocatable sections read-only allows them to be shared between processes
using a given shared object.

Can be disabled with \fB-z guidance=notext\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
No unused dependencies
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suggests that any dependency not referenced by the resulting dynamic object be
removed from the link-editor command line.

Can be disabled with \fB-z guidance=nounused\fR.
.RE
.RE 

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBhelp\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--help\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print a summary of the command line options on the standard output and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBignore\fR | \fBrecord\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ignores, or records, dynamic dependencies that are not referenced as part of
the link-edit. Ignores, or records, unreferenced \fBELF\fR sections from the
relocatable objects that are read as part of the link-edit. By default,
\fB-z\fR \fBrecord\fR is in effect.
.sp
If an \fBELF\fR section is ignored, the section is eliminated from the output
file being generated. A section is ignored when three conditions are true. The
eliminated section must contribute to an allocatable segment. The eliminated
section must provide no global symbols. No other section from any object that
contributes to the link-edit, must reference an eliminated section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBinitarray=\fR\fIfunction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Appends an entry to the \fB\&.initarray\fR section of the object being built.
If no \fB\&.initarray\fR section is present, a section is created. The new
entry is initialized to point to \fIfunction\fR. See \fIInitialization and
Termination Sections\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBinitfirst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object so that its runtime initialization occurs before the runtime
initialization of any other objects brought into the process at the same time.
In addition, the object runtime finalization occurs after the runtime
finalization of any other objects removed from the process at the same time.
This option is only meaningful when building a shared object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBinterpose\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object as an interposer. At runtime, an object is identified as an
explicit interposer if the object has been tagged using the \fB-z interpose\fR
option. An explicit interposer is also established when an object is loaded
using the \fBLD_PRELOAD\fR environment variable. Implicit interposition can
occur because of the load order of objects, however, this implicit
interposition is unknown to the runtime linker. Explicit interposition can
ensure that interposition takes place regardless of the order in which objects
are loaded. Explicit interposition also ensures that the runtime linker
searches for symbols in any explicit interposers when direct bindings are in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBlazyload\fR | \fBnolazyload\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables the marking of dynamic dependencies to be lazily loaded.
Dynamic dependencies which are marked \fBlazyload\fR are not loaded at initial
process start-up. These dependencies are delayed until the first binding to the
object is made. \fBNote:\fR Lazy loading requires the correct declaration of
dependencies, together with associated runpaths for each dynamic object used
within a process. See \fILazy Loading of Dynamic Dependencies\fR in \fILinker
and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBld32\fR=\fIarg1\fR,\fIarg2\fR,...\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBld64\fR=\fIarg1\fR,\fIarg2\fR,...\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The class of the link-editor is affected by the class of the output file being
created and by the capabilities of the underlying operating system. The
\fB-z\fR \fBld\fR[\fB32\fR|\fB64\fR] options provide a means of defining any
link-editor argument. The defined argument is only interpreted, respectively,
by the 32-bit class or 64-bit class of the link-editor.
.sp
For example, support libraries are class specific, so the correct class of
support library can be ensured using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBld ... -z ld32=-Saudit32.so.1 -z ld64=-Saudit64.so.1 ...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The class of link-editor that is invoked is determined from the \fBELF\fR class
of the first relocatable file that is seen on the command line. This
determination is carried out \fBprior\fR to any \fB-z\fR
\fBld\fR[\fB32\fR|\fB64\fR] processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBloadfltr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a filter to indicate that filtees must be processed immediately at
runtime. Normally, filter processing is delayed until a symbol reference is
bound to the filter. The runtime processing of an object that contains this
flag mimics that which occurs if the \fBLD_LOADFLTR\fR environment variable is
in effect. See the \fBld.so.1\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBmuldefs\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--allow-multiple-definition\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows multiple symbol definitions. By default, multiple symbol definitions
that occur between relocatable objects result in a fatal error condition. This
option, suppresses the error condition, allowing the first symbol definition to
be taken.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnocompstrtab\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables the compression of \fBELF\fR string tables. By default, string
compression is applied to \fBSHT_STRTAB\fR sections, and to \fBSHT_PROGBITS\fR
sections that have their \fBSHF_MERGE\fR and \fBSHF_STRINGS\fR section flags
set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnodefaultlib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object so that the runtime default library search path, used after
any \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR or runpaths, is ignored. This option implies that all
dependencies of the object can be satisfied from its runpath.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnodelete\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object as non-deletable at runtime. This mode is similar to adding
the object to the process by using \fBdlopen\fR(3C) with the
\fBRTLD_NODELETE\fR mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnodlopen\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object as not available to \fBdlopen\fR(3C), either as the object
specified by the \fBdlopen()\fR, or as any form of dependency required by the
object specified by the \fBdlopen()\fR. This option is only meaningful when
building a shared object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnodump\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object as not available to \fBdldump\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnoldynsym\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prevents the inclusion of a \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR section in dynamic
executables or sharable libraries. The \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR section augments
the \fB\&.dynsym\fR section by providing symbols for local functions. Local
function symbols allow debuggers to display local function names in stack
traces from stripped programs. Similarly, \fBdladdr\fR(3C) is able to supply
more accurate results.
.sp
The \fB-z\fR \fBnoldynsym\fR option also prevents the inclusion of the two
symbol sort sections that are related to the \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR section. The
\fB\&.SUNW_dynsymsort\fR section provides sorted access to regular function and
variable symbols. The \fB\&.SUNW_dyntlssort\fR section provides sorted access
to thread local storage (\fBTLS\fR) variable symbols.
.sp
The \fB\&.SUNW_ldynsym\fR, \fB\&.SUNW_dynsymsort\fR, and
\fB\&.SUNW_dyntlssort\fR sections, which becomes part of the allocable text
segment of the resulting file, cannot be removed by \fBstrip\fR(1). Therefore,
the \fB-z\fR \fBnoldynsym\fR option is the only way to prevent their inclusion.
See the \fB-s\fR and \fB-z\fR \fBredlocsym\fR options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnopartial\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Partially initialized symbols, that are defined within relocatable object
files, are expanded in the output file being generated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnoversion\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Does not record any versioning sections. Any version sections or associated
\fB\&.dynamic\fR section entries are not generated in the output image.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBnow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object as requiring non-lazy runtime binding. This mode is similar to
adding the object to the process by using \fBdlopen\fR(3C) with the
\fBRTLD_NOW\fR mode. This mode is also similar to having the \fBLD_BIND_NOW\fR
environment variable in effect. See \fBld.so.1\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBorigin\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks the object as requiring immediate \fB$ORIGIN\fR processing at runtime.
This option is only maintained for historic compatibility, as the runtime
analysis of objects to provide for \fB$ORIGIN\fR processing is now default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBpreinitarray=\fR\fIfunction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Appends an entry to the \fB\&.preinitarray\fR section of the object being
built. If no \fB\&.preinitarray\fR section is present, a section is created.
The new entry is initialized to point to \fIfunction\fR. See \fIInitialization
and Termination Sections\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBredlocsym\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Eliminates all local symbols except for the \fISECT\fR symbols from the symbol
table \fBSHT_SYMTAB\fR. All relocations that refer to local symbols are updated
to refer to the corresponding \fISECT\fR symbol. This option allows specialized
objects to greatly reduce their symbol table sizes. Eliminated local symbols
can reduce the \fB\&.stab*\fR debugging information that is generated using the
compiler drivers \fB-g\fR option. See the \fB-s\fR and \fB-z\fR \fBnoldynsym\fR
options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBrelaxreloc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBld\fR normally issues a fatal error upon encountering a relocation using a
symbol that references an eliminated COMDAT section. If \fB-z\fR
\fBrelaxreloc\fR is enabled, \fBld\fR instead redirects such relocations to the
equivalent symbol in the COMDAT section that was kept. \fB-z\fR
\fBrelaxreloc\fR is a specialized option, mainly of interest to compiler
authors, and is not intended for general use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBrescan-now\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBrescan\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
These options rescan the archive files that are provided to the link-edit. By
default, archives are processed once as the archives appear on the command
line. Archives are traditionally specified at the end of the command line so
that their symbol definitions resolve any preceding references. However,
specifying archives multiple times to satisfy their own interdependencies can
be necessary.
.sp
\fB-z\fR \fBrescan-now\fR is a positional option, and is processed by the
link-editor immediately when encountered on the command line. All archives seen
on the command line up to that point are immediately reprocessed in an attempt
to locate additional archive members that resolve symbol references. This
archive rescanning is repeated until a pass over the archives occurs in which
no new members are extracted.
.sp
\fB-z\fR \fBrescan\fR is a position independent option. The link-editor defers
the rescan operation until after it has processed the entire command line, and
then initiates a final rescan operation over all archives seen on the command
line. The \fB-z\fR \fBrescan\fR operation can interact          incorrectly
with objects that contain initialization (.init) or finalization (.fini)
sections, preventing the code in those sections from running. For this reason,
\fB-z\fR \fBrescan\fR is deprecated, and use of \fB-z\fR \fBrescan-now\fR is
advised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBrescan-start\fR ... \fB-z\fR \fBrescan-end\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--start-group\fR ... \fB--end-group\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-(\fR ... \fB-)\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defines an archive rescan group. This is a positional construct, and is
processed by the link-editor immediately upon encountering the closing
delimiter option.  Archives found within the group delimiter options are
reprocessed as a group in an attempt to locate  additional archive members that
resolve symbol references. This archive rescanning  is repeated  until a  pass
over the archives On the occurs in  which no  new  members are extracted.
Archive rescan groups cannot be nested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBtarget=sparc|x86\fR \fI\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the machine type for the output object. Supported targets are Sparc
and x86. The 32-bit machine type for the specified target is used unless the
\fB-64\fR option is also present, in which case the corresponding 64-bit
machine type is used. By default, the machine type of the object being
generated is determined from the first \fBELF\fR object processed from the
command line. If no objects are specified, the machine type is determined by
the first object encountered within the first archive processed from the
command line. If there are no objects or archives, the link-editor assumes the
native machine. This option is useful when creating an object directly with
\fBld\fR whose input is solely from a \fBmapfile\fR. See the \fB-M\fR option.
It can also be useful in the rare case of linking entirely from an archive that
contains objects of different machine types for which the first object is not
of the desired machine type. See \fIThe 32-bit link-editor and 64-bit
link-editor\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBtext\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only, forces a fatal error if any relocations against
non-writable, allocatable sections remain. For historic reasons, this mode is
not the default when building an executable or shared object. However, its use
is recommended to ensure that the text segment of the dynamic object being
built is shareable between multiple running processes. A shared text segment
incurs the least relocation overhead when loaded into memory. See
\fIPosition-Independent Code\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBtextoff\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only, allows relocations against all allocatable sections,
including non-writable ones. This mode is the default when building a shared
object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBtextwarn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
In dynamic mode only, lists a warning if any relocations against non-writable,
allocatable sections remain. This mode is the default when building an
executable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR \fBverbose\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option provides additional warning diagnostics during a link-edit.
Presently, this option conveys suspicious use of displacement relocations. This
option also conveys the restricted use of static \fBTLS\fR relocations when
building shared objects. In future, this option might be enhanced to provide
additional diagnostics that are deemed too noisy to be generated by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-z\fR\fBwrap=\fR\fIsymbol\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-wrap=\fR \fIsymbol\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--wrap=\fR \fIsymbol\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Rename undefined references to \fIsymbol\fR in order to allow wrapper code to
be linked into the output object without having to modify source code. When
\fB-z wrap\fR is specified, all undefined references to \fIsymbol\fR are
modified to reference \fB__wrap_\fR\fIsymbol\fR, and all references to
\fB__real_\fR\fIsymbol\fR are modified to reference \fIsymbol\fR. The user is
expected to provide an object containing the \fB__wrap_\fR\fIsymbol\fR
function. This wrapper function can call \fB__real_\fR\fIsymbol\fR in order to
reference the actual function being wrapped.
.sp
The following is an example of a wrapper for the \fBmalloc\fR(3C) function:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void *
__wrap_malloc(size_t c)
{
        (void) printf("malloc called with %zu\en", c);
        return (__real_malloc(c));
}
.fi
.in -2

If you link other code with this file using \fB-z\fR \fBwrap=malloc\fR to
compile all the objects, then all calls to \fBmalloc\fR will call the function
\fB__wrap_malloc\fR instead. The call to \fB__real_malloc\fR will call the real
\fBmalloc\fR function.
.sp
The real and wrapped functions should be maintained in separate source files.
Otherwise, the compiler or assembler may resolve the call instead of leaving
that operation for the link-editor to carry out, and prevent the wrap from
occurring.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLD_ALTEXEC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An alternative link-editor path name. \fBld\fR executes, and passes control to
this alternative link-editor. This environment variable provides a generic
means of overriding the default link-editor that is called from the various
compiler drivers. See the \fB-z altexec64\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A list of directories in which to search for the libraries specified using the
\fB-l\fR option. Multiple directories are separated by a colon. In the most
general case, this environment variable contains two directory lists separated
by a semicolon:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIdirlist1\fR\fB;\fR\fIdirlist2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If \fBld\fR is called with any number of occurrences of \fB-L\fR, as in:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBld ... -L\fIpath1\fR ... -L\fIpathn\fR ...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

then the search path ordering is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\fIdirlist1 path1\fR ... \fIpathn dirlist2\fR LIBPATH\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

When the list of directories does not contain a semicolon, the list is
interpreted as \fIdirlist2\fR.
.sp
The \fBLD_LIBRARY_PATH\fR environment variable also affects the runtime linkers
search for dynamic dependencies.
.sp
This environment variable can be specified with a _32 or _64 suffix. This makes
the environment variable specific, respectively, to 32-bit or 64-bit processes
and overrides any non-suffixed version of the environment variable that is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLD_NOEXEC_64\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppresses the automatic execution of the 64-bit link-editor. By default, the
link-editor executes the 64-bit version when the \fBELF\fR class of the first
relocatable file identifies a 64-bit object. The 64-bit image that a 32-bit
link-editor can create, has some limitations. However, some link-edits might
find the use of the 32-bit link-editor faster.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLD_OPTIONS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A default set of options to \fBld\fR. \fBLD_OPTIONS\fR is interpreted by
\fBld\fR just as though its value had been placed on the command line,
immediately following the name used to invoke \fBld\fR, as in:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBld $LD_OPTIONS ... \fIother-arguments\fR ...\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLD_RUN_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An alternative mechanism for specifying a runpath to the link-editor. See the
\fB-R\fR option. If both \fBLD_RUN_PATH\fR and the \fB-R\fR option are
specified, \fB-R\fR supersedes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSGS_SUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Provides a colon-separated list of shared objects that are loaded with the
link-editor and given information regarding the linking process. This
environment variable can be specified with a _32 or _64 suffix. This makes the
environment variable specific, respectively, to the 32-bit or 64-bit class of
\fBld\fR and overrides any non-suffixed version of the environment variable
that is in effect. See the \fB-S\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Notice that environment variable-names that begin with the
characters '\fBLD_\fR' are reserved for possible future enhancements to \fBld\fR and
\fBld.so.1\fR(1).
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlib\fIx\fR.so\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
shared object libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlib\fIx\fR.a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
archive libraries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa.out\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
default output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fILIBPATH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
For 32-bit libraries, the default search path is \fB/usr/ccs/lib\fR, followed
by \fB/lib\fR, and finally \fB/usr/lib\fR. For 64-bit libraries, the default
search path is \fB/lib/64\fR, followed by \fB/usr/lib/64\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ld\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A directory containing several \fBmapfiles\fR that can be used during
link-editing. These \fBmapfiles\fR provide various capabilities, such as
defining memory layouts, aligning bss, and defining non-executable stacks.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBas\fR(1), \fBcrle\fR(1), \fBgprof\fR(1), \fBld.so.1\fR(1), \fBldd\fR(1),
\fBmcs\fR(1), \fBpvs\fR(1), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBstat\fR(2), \fBdlopen\fR(3C),
\fBdldump\fR(3C), \fBelf\fR(3ELF), \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBa.out\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Default options applied by \fBld\fR are maintained for historic reasons. In
today's programming environment, where dynamic objects dominate, alternative
defaults would often make more sense. However, historic defaults must be
maintained to ensure compatibility with existing program development
environments. Historic defaults are called out wherever possible in this
manual. For a description of the current recommended options, see Appendix A,
\fILink-Editor Quick Reference,\fR in \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the file being created by \fBld\fR already exists, the file is unlinked
after all input files have been processed. A new file with the specified name
is then created. This allows \fBld\fR to create a new version of the file,
while simultaneously allowing existing processes that are accessing the old
file contents to continue running. If the old file has no other links, the disk
space of the removed file is freed when the last process referencing the file
terminates.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of \fBld\fR when the file being created already exists was changed
with \fBSXCE\fR build \fB43\fR. In older versions, the existing file was
rewritten in place, an approach with the potential to corrupt any running
processes that is using the file. This change has an implication for output
files that have multiple hard links in the file system. Previously, all links
would remain intact, with all links accessing the new file contents. The new
\fBld\fR behavior \fBbreaks\fR such links, with the result that only the
specified output file name references the new file. All the other links
continue to reference the old file. To ensure consistent behavior, applications
that rely on multiple hard links to linker output files should explicitly
remove and relink the other file names.
