'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LDAP 1 "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
ldap \- LDAP as a naming repository
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
LDAP refers to Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, which is an industry
standard for accessing directory servers. By initializing the client using
\fBldapclient\fR(1M) and using the keyword \fBldap\fR in the name service
switch file, \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR, Solaris clients can obtain naming
information from an LDAP server. Information such as usernames, hostnames, and
passwords are stored on the LDAP server in a Directory Information Tree or
\fBDIT\fR. The \fBDIT\fR consists of entries which in turn are composed of
attributes. Each attribute has a type and one or more values.
.sp
.LP
Solaris LDAP clients use the LDAP v3 protocol to access naming information from
LDAP servers. The LDAP server must support the object classes and attributes
defined in \fIRFC2307bis (draft)\fR, which maps the naming service model on to
LDAP. As an alternate to using the schema defined in \fIRFC2307bis (draft)\fR,
the system can be configured to use other schema sets and the schema mapping
feature is configured to map between the two. Refer to the \fISystem
Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS, and LDAP)\fR for
more details.
.sp
.LP
The \fBldapclient\fR(1M) utility can make a Solaris machine an LDAP client by
setting up the appropriate directories, files, and configuration information.
The LDAP client caches this configuration information in local cache files.
This configuration information is accessed through the \fBldap_cachemgr\fR(1M)
daemon. This daemon also refreshes the information in the configuration files
from the LDAP server, providing better performance and security. The
\fBldap_cachemgr\fR must run at all times for the proper operation of the
naming services.
.sp
.LP
There are two types of configuration information, the information available
through a profile, and the information configured per client. The profile
contains all the information as to how the client accesses the directory. The
credential information for proxy user is configured on a per client basis and
is not downloaded through the profile.
.sp
.LP
The profile contains server-specific parameters that are required by all
clients to locate the servers for the desired LDAP domain. This information
could be the server's IP address and the search base Distinguished Name (DN),
for instance. It is configured on the client from the default profile during
client initialization and is periodically updated by the \fBldap_cachemgr\fR
daemon when the expiration time has elapsed.
.sp
.LP
Client profiles can be stored on the LDAP server and can be used by the
\fBldapclient\fR utility to initialize an LDAP client. Using the client profile
is the easiest way to configure a client machine. See \fBldapclient\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
Credential information includes client-specific parameters that are used by a
client. This information could be the Bind DN (LDAP "login" name) of the client
and the password. If these parameters are required, they are manually defined
during the initialization through \fBldapclient\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The naming information is stored in containers on the LDAP server. A container
is a non-leaf entry in the DIT that contains naming service information.
Containers are similar to maps in NIS. A default mapping
between the NIS databases and the containers in LDAP is presented below. The
location of these containers as well as their names can be overridden through
the use of \fBserviceSearchDescriptors\fR. For more information, see
\fBldapclient\fR(1M).
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c | c
l | l | l .
Database	Object Class	Container
_
passwd	posixAccount	ou=people,dc=...
	shadowAccount	
_
group	posixGroup	ou=Group,dc=...
_
services	ipService	ou=Services,dc=...
_
protocols	ipProtocol	ou=Protocols,dc=...
_
rpc	oncRpc	ou=Rpc,dc=...
_
hosts	ipHost	ou=Hosts,dc=...
ipnodes	ipHost	ou=Hosts,dc=...
_
ethers	ieee802Device	ou=Ethers,dc=...
_
bootparams	bootableDevice	ou=Ethers,dc=...
_
networks	ipNetwork	ou=Networks,dc=...
netmasks	ipNetwork 	ou=Networks,dc=...
_
netgroup	nisNetgroup	ou=Netgroup,dc=...
_
aliases	mailGroup	ou=Aliases,dc=...
_
publickey	nisKeyObject 	
_
generic	nisObject	nisMapName=...,dc=...
_
printers	printerService	ou=Printers,dc=...
_
auth_attr	SolarisAuthAttr	ou=SolarisAuthAttr,dc=...
_
prof_attr	SolarisProfAttr	ou=SolarisProfAttr,dc=...
_
exec_attr	SolarisExecAttr	ou=SolarisProfAttr,dc=...
_
user_attr	SolarisUserAttr	ou=people,dc=...
_
audit_user	SolarisAuditUser	ou=people,dc=...
.TE

.sp
.LP
The security model for clients is defined by a combination of the credential
level to be used, the authentication method, and the PAM modules to be used.
The credential level defines what credentials the client should use to
authenticate to the directory server, and the authentication method defines the
method of choice. Both these can be set with multiple values. The Solaris LDAP
supports the following values for credential level :
.br
.in +2
\fBanonymous\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBproxy\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBself\fR
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The Solaris LDAP supports the following values for authentication method:
.br
.in +2
\fBnone\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBsimple\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBsasl/CRAM-MD5\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBsasl/DIGEST-MD5\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBsasl/GSSAPI\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBtls:simple\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBtls:sasl/CRAM-MD5\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBtls:sasl/DIGEST-MD5\fR
.in -2
.sp
.LP
When the credential level is configured as \fBself\fR, DNS must be configured
and the authentication method must be \fBsasl/GSSAPI\fR. The \fBhosts\fR and
\fBipnodes\fR in \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR must be configured to use DNS, for
example \fBhosts: dns files\fR and \fBipnodes: dns files\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl/GSSAPI\fR automatically uses \fBGSSAPI\fR confidentiality and integrity
options, if they are configured on the directory server.
.sp
.LP
The credential level of \fBself\fR enables per-user naming service lookups, or
lookups that use the \fBGSSAPI\fR credentials of the user when connecting to
the directory server. Currently the only \fBGSSAPI\fR mechanism supported in
this model is Kerberos V5. Kerberos must be configured before you can use this
credential level. See \fBkerberos\fR(5) for details.
.sp
.LP
More protection can be provided by means of access control, allowing the server
to grant access for certain containers or entries. Access control is specified
by Access Control Lists (ACLs) that are defined and stored in the LDAP server.
The Access Control Lists on the LDAP server are called Access Control
Instructions (ACIs) by the SunOne Directory Server. Each ACL or ACI
specifies one or more directory objects, for example, the \fBcn\fR attribute in
a specific container, one or more clients to whom you grant or deny access, and
one or more access rights that determine what the clients can do to or with the
objects. Clients can be users or applications. Access rights can be specified
as read and write, for example. Refer to the \fISystem Administration Guide:
Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS, and LDAP)\fR regarding the
restrictions on ACLs and ACIs when using LDAP as a naming repository.
.sp
.LP
A sample \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) file called \fBnsswitch.ldap\fR is provided in
the \fB/etc\fR directory. This is copied to \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR by the
\fBldapclient\fR(1M) utility. This file uses LDAP as a repository for the
different databases in the \fBnsswitch.conf\fR file.
.sp
.LP
The following is a list of the user commands related to LDAP:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBidsconfig\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prepares a SunOne Directory Server to be ready to support Solaris LDAP clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBldapaddent\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Creates LDAP entries from corresponding \fB/etc\fR files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBldapclient\fR(1M)\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Initializes LDAP clients, or generates a configuration profile to be stored in
the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBldaplist\fR(1)\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Lists the contents of the LDAP naming space.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/ldap/ldap_client_cred\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB/var/ldap/ldap_client_file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Files that contain the LDAP configuration of the client. Do not manually modify
these files. Their content is not guaranteed to be human readable. Use
\fBldapclient\fR(1M) to update them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Configuration file for the name-service switch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nsswitch.ldap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Sample configuration file for the name-service switch configured with LDAP and
files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/pam.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
PAM framework configuration file.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBldaplist\fR(1), \fBidsconfig\fR(1M), \fBldap_cachemgr\fR(1M),
\fBldapaddent\fR(1M), \fBldapclient\fR(1M), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
\fBpam.conf\fR(4), \fBkerberos\fR(5)\fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5),
\fBpam_authtok_get\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_store\fR(5), \fBpam_dhkeys\fR(5),
\fBpam_ldap\fR(5), \fBpam_passwd_auth\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_account\fR(5),
\fBpam_unix_auth\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_session\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Naming and Directory Services (DNS, NIS, and
LDAP)\fR
.SH NOTES
.LP
The \fBpam_unix\fR(5) module is no longer supported. Similar functionality is
provided by \fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_get\fR(5),
\fBpam_authtok_store\fR(5), \fBpam_dhkeys\fR(5), \fBpam_passwd_auth\fR(5),
\fBpam_unix_account\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_auth\fR(5),
and\fBpam_unix_session\fR(5).
