'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LOOK 1 "Mar 29, 1994"
.SH NAME
look \- find words in the system dictionary or lines in a sorted list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/look\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-t\fR\fIc\fR] \fIstring\fR [\fIfilename\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlook\fR command consults a sorted \fIfilename\fR and prints all lines
that begin with \fIstring\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no  \fIfilename\fR is specified, \fBlook\fR uses
\fB/usr/share/lib/dict/words\fR with collating sequence \fB-df\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBlook\fR limits the length of a word to search for to 256 characters.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Dictionary order. Only letters, digits,  \fBTAB\fR and \fBSPACE\fR characters
are used in comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Fold case. Upper case letters are not distinguished from lower case in
comparisons.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fIc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Set termination character. All characters to the right of \fIc\fR in
\fIstring\fR are ignored.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/dict/words\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
spelling list
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgrep\fR(1), \fBsort\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
