'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text
.\" are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical
.\" and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LS 1 "Nov 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
ls \- list contents of directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/ls\fR [\fB-aAbcCdeEfFghHiklLmnopqrRsStuUwvVx1@\fR]
     [\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR] [\fB-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all\fR]
     [--block-size size] [--color[=\fIwhen\fR]] [--file-type]
     [--si] [--time-style \fIstyle\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/ls\fR [\fB-aAbcCdeEfFghHiklLmnopqrRsStuUwvVx1@\fR]
     [\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR] [\fB-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all\fR]
     [--block-size size] [--color[=\fIwhen\fR]] [--file-type]
     [--si] [--time-style \fIstyle\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin/ls\fR [\fB-aAbcCdeEfFghHiklLmnopqrRsStuUwvVx1@\fR]
     [\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR] [\fB-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all\fR]
     [--block-size size] [--color[=\fIwhen\fR]] [--file-type]
     [--si] [--time-style \fIstyle\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
For each \fIfile\fR that is a directory, \fBls\fR lists the contents of the
directory. For each \fIfile\fR that is an ordinary file, \fBls\fR repeats its
name and any other information requested. The output is sorted alphabetically
by default. When no argument is given, the current directory (\fB\&.\fR) is
listed. When several arguments are given, the arguments are first sorted
appropriately, but file arguments appear before directories and their contents.
.sp
.LP
There are three major listing formats. The default format for output directed
to a terminal is multi\(micolumn with entries sorted down the columns. The
\fB-1\fR option allows single column output and \fB-m\fR enables stream output
format. In order to determine output formats for the \fB-C\fR, \fB-x\fR, and
\fB-m\fR options, \fBls\fR uses an environment variable, \fBCOLUMNS\fR, to
determine the number of character positions available on one output line. If
this variable is not set, the \fBterminfo\fR(4) database is used to determine
the number of columns, based on the environment variable, \fBTERM\fR. If this
information cannot be obtained, 80 columns are assumed. If the \fB-w\fR option
is used, the argument overrides any other column width.
.sp
.LP
The mode printed when the \fB-e\fR, \fB-E\fR, \fB-g\fR, \fB-l\fR, \fB-n\fR,
\fB-o\fR, \fB-v\fR, \fB-V\fR, or \fB-@\fR option is in effect consists of
eleven characters. The first character can be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBD\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a door.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a symbolic link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBb\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a block special file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a character special file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is a \fBFIFO\fR (or "named pipe") special file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is an event port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is an \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The entry is an ordinary file.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The next 9 characters are interpreted as three sets of three bits each. The
first set refers to the owner's permissions; the next to permissions of others
in the user-group of the file; and the last to all others. Within each set, the
three characters indicate permission to read, to write, and to execute the file
as a program, respectively. For a directory, \fBexecute\fR permission is
interpreted to mean permission to search the directory for a specified file.
The character after permissions is an ACL or extended attributes indicator.
This character is an \fB@\fR if extended attributes are associated with the
file and the \fB-@\fR option is in effect. Otherwise, this character is a plus
sign (\fB+\fR) character if a non-trivial ACL is associated with the file or a
space character if not.
.sp
.LP
If \fB-/\fR and/or \fB-%\fR are in effect, then the extended system attributes
are printed when filesystem supports extended system attributes. The display
looks as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ls -/ c  file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                {AHRSadim-u--}

$ls -/ v file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                {archive,hidden,readonly,system,\e
                 appendonly,nodump,immutable,av_modified,\e
                 noav_quarantined,nounlink,nooffline,\e
                 nosparse}

$ls -l -% all file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                timestamp: atime    Jun 25 12:56:44 2007
                timestamp: ctime    May 10 14:20:23 2007
                timestamp: mtime    May 10 14:17:56 2007
                timestamp: crtime   May 10 14:17:56 2007
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
See the option descriptions of the \fB-/\fR and \fB-%\fR option for details.
.sp
.LP
\fBls\fR \fB-l\fR (the long list) prints its output as follows for the POSIX
locale:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-rwxrwxrwx+ 1 smith dev   10876  May 16 9:42 part2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Reading from right to left, you see that the current directory holds one file,
named \fBpart2\fR. Next, the last time that file's contents were modified was
\fB9:42 A.M.\fR on \fBMay 16\fR. The file contains 10,876 characters, or bytes.
The owner of the file, or the user, belongs to the group \fBdev\fR (perhaps
indicating \fBdevelopment\fR), and his or her login name is \fBsmith\fR. The
number, in this case \fB1\fR, indicates the number of links to file \fBpart2\fR
(see \fBcp\fR(1)). The plus sign indicates that there is an \fBACL\fR
associated with the file. If the \fB-@\fR option has been specified, the
presence of extended attributes supersede the presence of an \fBACL\fR and the
plus sign is replaced with an 'at' sign (\fB@\fR). Finally, the dash and
letters tell you that user, group, and others have permissions to read, write,
and execute \fBpart2\fR.
.sp
.LP
The execute (\fBx\fR) symbol occupies the third position of the three-character
sequence. A \fB\(mi\fR in the third position would have indicated a denial of
execution permissions.
.sp
.LP
The permissions are indicated as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is readable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is writable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBx\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The file is executable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The indicated permission is \fInot\fR granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBs\fRet-user-ID or \fBs\fRet-group-ID bit is on, and the corresponding
user or group execution bit is also on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Undefined bit-state (the set-user-ID or set-group-id bit is on and the user or
group execution bit is off). For group permissions, this applies only to
non-regular files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The 1000 (octal) bit, or sticky bit, is on (see \fBchmod\fR(1)), and execution
is on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The 1000 bit is turned on, and execution is off (undefined bit-state).
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/ls"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBl\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mandatory locking occurs during access (on a regular file, the set-group-ID bit
is on and the group execution bit is off).
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/ls and /usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mandatory locking occurs during access (on a regular file, the set-group-ID bit
is on and the group execution bit is off).
.RE

.sp
.LP
For user and group permissions, the third position is sometimes occupied by a
character other than \fBx\fR or \fB-\fR. \fBs\fR or \fBS\fR also can occupy
this position, referring to the state of the set-ID bit, whether it be the
user's or the group's. The ability to assume the same ID as the user during
execution is, for example, used during login when you begin as root but need to
assume the identity of the user you login as.
.sp
.LP
In the case of the sequence of group permissions, \fBl\fR can occupy the third
position. \fBl\fR refers to mandatory file and record locking. This permission
describes a file's ability to allow other files to lock its reading or writing
permissions during access.
.sp
.LP
For others permissions, the third position can be occupied by \fBt\fR or
\fBT\fR. These refer to the state of the sticky bit and execution permissions.
.SS "Color Output"
.LP
If color output is enabled, the environment variable LS_COLORS is checked.  If
it exists, it's contents are used to control the colors used to display
filenames.  If it is not set, a default list of colors is used. The format of
LS_COLORS is a colon separated list of attribute specifications. Each attribute
specification is of the format
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIfilespec\fR=\fIattr\fR[;\fIattr\fR..]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fIfilespec\fR is either of the form \fI*.SUFFIX\fR, for example, \fB*.jar\fR
or \fB*.Z\fR, or one of the following file types:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBno\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Normal file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Regular file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBln\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpi\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
FIFO or named pipe
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBso\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdo\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Door file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Block device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Character device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBex\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Execute bit (either \fBuser\fR, \fBgroup\fR, or \fBother\fR) set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpo\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Event port
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBst\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sticky bit set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBor\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Orphaned symlink
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsg\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBsetgid\fR binary
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsu\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBsetuid\fR binary
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBow\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBworld\fR writable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtw\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sticky bit and \fBworld\fR writable
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fIattr\fR is a semicolon delimited list of color and display attributes which
are combined to determine the final output color. Any combination of \fIattr\fR
values can be specified. Possible \fIattr\fR values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB00\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All attributes off (default terminal color)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB01\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text in bold
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB04\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text with an underscore
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB05\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text in bold
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB07\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display text with foreground and background colors reversed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB08\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display using concealed text.
.RE

.sp
.LP
One of the following values can be chosen. If multiple values are specified,
the last specified value is used.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB30\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBblack\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB31\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBred\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB32\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBgreen\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB33\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fByellow\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB34\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBblue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB35\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBmagenta\fR (\fBpurple\fR).
.sp
Set foreground to \fB\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB36\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBcyan\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB37\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBwhite\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB39\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to default terminal color.
.RE

.sp
.LP
One of the following can be specified. If multiple values are specified, the
last value specified is used.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB40\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBblack\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB41\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBred\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB42\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBgreen\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB43\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fByellow\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB44\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBblue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB45\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBmagenta\fR (\fBpurple\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB46\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBcyan\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB47\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to \fBwhite\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB49\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set foreground to default terminal color.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On some terminals, setting the bold attribute causes the foreground colors to
be high-intensity, that is, brighter. In such cases the low-intensity yellow is
often displayed as a brown or orange color.
.sp
.LP
At least one attribute must be listed for a file specification.
.sp
.LP
The appropriate color codes are chosen by selecting the most specific match,
starting with the file suffixes and proceeding with the file types until a
match is found. The \fBno\fR (normal file) type matches any file.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.SS "/usr/bin/ls, /usr/xpg4/bin/ls, and /usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.LP
The following options are supported for all three versions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--all\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all entries, including those that begin with a dot (\fB\&.\fR), which are
normally not listed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--almost-all\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists all entries, including those that begin with a dot (\fB\&.\fR), with the
exception of the working directory (\fB\&.\fR) and the parent directory
(\fB\&..\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--escape\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces printing of non-printable characters to be in the octal
\fB\e\fR\fIddd\fR notation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--ignore-backups\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not display any files ending with a tilde (\fB~\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses time of last modification of the i-node (file created, mode changed, and
so forth) for sorting (\fB-t\fR) or printing (\fB-l\fR or \fB-n\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multi-column output with entries sorted down the columns. This is the default
output format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If an argument is a directory, lists only its name (not its contents). Often
used with \fB-l\fR to get the status of a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except displays time to the second, and with one format
for all files regardless of age: \fImmm dd hh:mm:ss yyyy\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except displays time to the nanosecond and with one
format for all files regardless of age: \fIyyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss.nnnnnnnnn\fR
(ISO 8601:2000 format).
.sp
In addition, this option displays the offset from UTC in ISO 8601:2000 standard
format (+\fIhhmm\fR or -\fIhhmm\fR) or no characters if the offset is
indeterminable. The offset reflects the appropriate standard or alternate
offset in force at the file's displayed date and time, under the current
timezone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces each argument to be interpreted as a directory and list the name found
in each slot. This option turns off \fB-l\fR, \fB-t\fR, \fB-s\fR, \fB-S\fR, and
\fB-r\fR, and turns on \fB-a\fR. The order is the order in which entries appear
in the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--classify\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append a symbol after certain types of files to indicate the file type. The
following symbols are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Door file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB|\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Named pipe (\fBFIFO\fR)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB@\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Symbolic link
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB=\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Executable
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except that the owner is not printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--human-readable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All sizes are scaled to a human readable format, for example, \fB14K\fR,
\fB234M\fR, \fB2.7G\fR, or \fB3.0T\fR. Scaling is done by repetitively dividing
by \fB1024\fR. The last --si or -h option determines the divisor used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--dereference-command-line\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If an argument is a symbolic link that references a directory, this option
evaluates the file information and file type of the directory that the link
references, rather than those of the link itself. However, the name of the link
is displayed, rather than the referenced directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--inode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
For each file, prints the i-node number in the first column of the report.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
All sizes are printed in kbytes. Equivalent to --block-size=1024.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists in long format, giving mode, \fBACL\fR indication, number of links,
owner, group, size in bytes, and time of last modification for each file (see
above). If the file is a special file, the size field instead contains the
major and minor device numbers. If the time of last modification is greater
than six months ago, it is shown in the format `month date year' for the POSIX
locale. When the \fBLC_TIME\fR locale category is not set to the POSIX locale,
a different format of the time field can be used. Files modified within six
months show `month date time'. If the file is a symbolic link, the filename is
printed followed by "\fB\(->\fR" and the path name of the referenced file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--dereference\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
If an argument is a symbolic link, this option evaluates the file information
and file type of the file or directory that the link references, rather than
those of the link itself. However, the name of the link is displayed, rather
than the referenced file or directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Streams output format. Files are listed across the page, separated by commas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--numeric-uid-gid\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except that the owner's \fBUID\fR and group's \fBGID\fR
numbers are printed, rather than the associated character strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--no-group\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except that the group is not printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Puts a slash (\fB/\fR) after each filename if the file is a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--hide-control-chars\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces printing of non-printable characters in file names as the character
question mark (\fB?\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--reverse\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reverses the order of sort to get reverse alphabetic, oldest first, or smallest
file size first as appropriate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--recursive\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Recursively lists subdirectories encountered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--size\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicate the total number of file system blocks consumed by each file
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sort by file size (in decreasing order) and for files with the same size by
file name (in increasing alphabetic order) instead of just by name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sorts by time stamp (latest first) instead of by name. The default is the last
modification time. See \fB-c\fR, \fB-u\fR and \fB-%\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses time of last access instead of last modification for sorting (with the
\fB-t\fR option) or printing (with the \fB-l\fR option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Output is unsorted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except that verbose ACL information is displayed as well
as the \fB-l\fR output. ACL information is displayed even if the file or
directory doesn't have an ACL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except that compact ACL information is displayed after
the \fB-l\fR output.
.sp
The \fB-V\fR option is only applicable to file systems that support NFSv4 ACLs,
such as the Solaris ZFS file system.
.sp
The format of the displayed ACL is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIentry_type\fR : \fIpermissions\fR : \fIinheritance_flags\fR : \fIaccess_type\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

\fIentry_type\fR is displayed as one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBuser:\fIusername\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Additional user access for \fIusername\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBgroup:\fIgroupname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Additional group access for group \fIgroupname\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBowner@\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBgroup@\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
File group owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBeveryone@\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Everyone access, including file owner and file group owner. This is not
equivalent to the POSIX other class.
.RE

The following permissions, supported by the NFSv4 ACL model, are displayed by
using the \fB-v\fR or \fB-V\fR options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_data (\fBr\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to read the data of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBlist_directory (\fBr\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to list the contents of a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_data (\fBw\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to modify a file's data. anywhere in the file's offset range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBadd_file (\fBw\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to add a new file to a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBappend_data (\fBp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ability to modify a file's data, but only starting at EOF.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBadd_subdirectory (\fBp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to create a subdirectory to a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_xattr (\fBR\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ability to read the extended attributes of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_xattr (\fBW\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ability to create extended attributes or write to the extended attribute
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBexecute (\fBx\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to execute a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_attributes (\fBa\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The ability to read basic attributes (non-ACLs) of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_attributes (\fBA\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to change the times associated with a file or directory to an
arbitrary value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdelete (\fBd\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to delete a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdelete_child (\fBD\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to delete a file within a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_acl (\fBc\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to read the ACL of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_acl (\fBC\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to write the ACL of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_owner (\fBo\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to change the owner of a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsynchronize (\fBs\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Permission to access file locally at server with synchronize reads and writes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No permission granted
.RE

The following inheritance flags, supported by the NFSv4 ACL model, are
displayed by using the \fB-v\fR or \fB-V\fR options:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBfile_inherit (\fBf\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Inherit to all newly created files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdir_inherit (\fBd\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Inherit to all newly created directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinherit_only (\fBi\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When placed on a directory, do not apply to the directory, only to newly
created files and directories. This flag requires that either
\fBfile_inherit\fR and or \fBdir_inherit\fR is also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBno_propagate (\fBn\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates that ACL entries should be inherited to objects in a directory, but
inheritance should stop after descending one level. This flag is dependent upon
either \fBfile_inherit\fR and or \fBdir_inherit\fR also being specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsuccessful_access (\fBS\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates whether an alarm or audit record should be initiated upon successful
accesses. Used with audit/alarm ACE types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBfailed_access (\fBF\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates whether an alarm or audit record should be initiated when access
fails. Used with audit/alarm ACE types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinherited (\fBI\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ACE was inherited.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No permission granted.
.RE

\fIaccess_type\fR is displayed as one of the following types:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBalarm\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Permission field that specifies permissions that should trigger an alarm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBallow\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Permission field that specifies allow permissions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBaudit\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Permission field that specifies permissions that should be audited.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdeny\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Permission field that specifies deny permissions.
.RE

For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ ls -dV /sandbox/dir.1
  drwxr-xr-x+  2 root     root           2 Jan 17 15:09 dir.1
                  user:marks:r-------------:fd-----:allow
                      owner@:--------------:-------:deny
                      owner@:rwxp---A-W-Co-:-------:allow
                      group@:-w-p----------:-------:deny
                      group@:r-x-----------:-------:allow
                   everyone@:-w-p---A-W-Co-:-------:deny
                   everyone@:r-x---a-R-c--s:-------:allow
$
                           ||||||||||||||||:||||||+ inherited access
                             ||||||||||||||:||||||+ failed access
                             ||||||||||||||:|||||+--success access
                             ||||||||||||||:||||+-- no propagate
                             ||||||||||||||:|||+--- inherit only
                             ||||||||||||||:||+---- directory inherit
                             ||||||||||||||:|+----- file inherit
                             ||||||||||||||
                             ||||||||||||||+ sync
                             |||||||||||||+- change owner
                             ||||||||||||+-- write ACL
                             |||||||||||+--- read ACL
                             ||||||||||+---- write extended attributes
                             |||||||||+----- read extended attributes
                             ||||||||+------ write attributes
                             |||||||+------- read attributes
                             ||||||+-------- delete child
                             |||||+--------- delete
                             ||||+---------- append
                             |||+----------- execute
                             ||+------------ write data
                             |+------------- read data
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fIcols\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--width\fR \fIcols\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multi-column output where the column width is forced to \fIcols\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Multi-column output with entries sorted across rather than down the page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints one entry per line of output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-@\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, except that extended attribute information overrides
\fBACL\fR information. An \fB@\fR is displayed after the file permission bits
for files that have extended attributes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-/ c\fR | \fBv\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The same as \fB-l\fR, and in addition displays the extended system attributes
associated with the file when extended system attributes are fully supported by
the underlying file system. The option \fB-/\fR supports two option arguments
\fBc\fR (compact mode) and \fBv\fR (verbose mode).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBappendonly\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows a file to be modified only at offset \fBEOF\fR. Attempts to modify a
file at a location other than \fBEOF\fR fails with \fBEPERM\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBarchive\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if a file has been modified since it was last backed up. Whenever the
modification time (\fBmtime\fR) of a file is changed the \fBarchive\fR
attribute is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBav_modified\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
ZFS sets the anti-virus attribute which whenever a file's content or size
changes or when the file is renamed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBav_quarantined\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Anti-virus software sets to mark a file as quarantined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcrtime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Timestamp when a file is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhidden\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a file as hidden.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBimmutable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prevents the content of a file from being modified. Also prevents all metadata
changes, except for access time updates. When placed on a directory, prevents
the deletion and creation of files in the directories. Attempts to modify the
content of a file or directory marked as \fBimmutable\fR fail with \fBEPERM\fR.
Attempts to modify any attributes (with the exception of access time and, with
the proper privileges, the \fBimmutable\fR) of a file marked as \fBimmutable\fR
fails with \fBEPERM\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnodump\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Solaris systems have no special semantics for this attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnounlink\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prevents a file from being deleted. On a directory, the attribute also prevents
any changes to the contents of the directory. That is, no files within the
directory can be removed or renamed. The \fBerrno\fR \fBEPERM\fR is returned
when attempting to unlink or rename files and directories that are marked as
\fBnounlink\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBoffline\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicate that a file is offline.  Solaris systems have no special semantics for
this attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreadonly\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks a file as \fBreadonly\fR. Once a file is marked as \fBreadonly\fR the
content data of the file cannot be modified. Other metadata for the file can
still be modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsparse\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicate that a file can be interpreted as sparse.  It does not indicate that
the file is actually sparse or not.  The sparse attribute is cleared when the
file is truncated to zero length.  Solaris systems have no other special
semantics for this attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsystem\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Solaris systems have no special semantics for this attribute.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.LP
The display characters used in compact mode (\fB-/ c\fR) are as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Attribute Name     Display
archive            A
hidden             H
readonly           R
system             S
appendonly         a
nodump             d
immutable          i
av_modified        m
av_quarantined     q
nounlink           u
offline            O
sparse             s
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The display in verbose mode (\fB-/ v\fR) uses full attribute names when it is set and
the name prefixed by 'no' when it is not set.
.sp
.LP
The attribute name \fBcrtime\fR and all other timestamps are handled by the
option \fB-%\fR with the respective timestamp option arguments and also with
\fBall\fR option argument. The display positions are as follows: The display in
verbose mode (\fB-/ v\fR) uses full attribute names  when it is set and the
name prefixed by \fBno\fR when it is not set. The attribute name \fBcrtime\fR
and all other timestamps are handled by the option \fB-%\fR with the respective
timestamp option arguments and also with \fBall\fR option argument.
.sp
.LP
The display positions are as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
{||||||||||||}
 |||||||||||+- s (sparse)
 ||||||||||+-- O (offline)
 |||||||||+--- u (nounlink)
 ||||||||+---- q (av_quarantined)
 |||||||+----- m (av_modified)
 ||||||+------ i (immutable)
 |||||+------- d (nodump)
 ||||+-------- a (appendonly)
 |||+--------- S (system)
 ||+---------- R (readonly)
 |+----------- H (hidden)
 +------------ A (archive)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.in +2
.nf
-% atime | crtime | ctime | mtime | all
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBatime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to \fB-u\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcrtime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the creation time of the file for sorting or printing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBctime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to \fB-c\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmtime\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the last modification time of the file contents for sorting or printing.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If extended system attributes are not supported or if the user does not have
\fBread\fR permission on the file or if the \fBcrtime\fR extended attribute is
not set, \fBcrtime\fR is treated as a synonym for \fBmtime\fR.
.sp
.LP
When option argument \fBall\fR is specified, all available timestamps are
printed which includes \fBatime\fR, \fBctime\fR, \fBmtime\fR and on the
extended system attribute supporting file systems, \fBcrtime\fR (create time).
The option \fB-% all\fR does not effect which timestamp is displayed in long
format and does not affect sorting.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--block-size\fR \fIsize\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display sizes in multiples of size. Size can be scaled by suffixing one of
\fBYyZzEePpTtGgMmKk\fR. Additionally, a \fBB\fR can be placed at the end to
indicate powers of 10 instead of 2. For example, . \fB10mB\fR means blocks of
\fB10000000\fR bytes while \fB10m\fR means blocks of \fB10*2^20 -- 10485760
--\fR bytes. This is mutually exclusive with the \fB-h\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--color\fR \fB[=\fR\fIwhen\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--colour\fR\fB[=\fR\fIwhen\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display filenames using color on color-capable terminals. \fIwhen\fR is an
optional argument that determines when to display color output.
.sp
Possible values for \fIwhen\fR are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBalways\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fByes\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBforce\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Always use color.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBauto\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBtty\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBif-tty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use color if a terminal is present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBno\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBnever\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBnone\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Never use color. This is the default
.RE

See \fBCOLOR OUTPUT\fR for information on how to control the output colors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--file-type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display a suffix after a file depending on it's type, similar to the \fB-F\fR
option, except \fB*\fR is not appended to executable files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-si\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display human scaled sizes similar to the \fB-h\fR option, except values are
repeatedly divided by 1000 instead of 1024. The last option \fB--si\fR or
\fB-h\fR determines the divisor used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--time-style\fR style\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display times using the specified style. This does not effect the times
displayed for extended attributes (\fB-%\fR).
.sp
Possible values for \fIstyle\fR are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfull-iso\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Equivalent to \fB-E\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlong-iso\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display in \fIYYYY-MM-DD HH:MM\fR for all files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBiso\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display older files using \fIYYYY-MM-DD\fR and newer files with \fIMM-DD
HH:MM\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlocale\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use the default locale format for old and new files. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+FORMAT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Use a custom format. Values are the same as described in \fBstrftime\fR(3C). If
a NEWLINE appears in the string, the first line is used for older files and the
second line is used for newer files. Otherwise, the given format is used for
all files.
.RE

.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/ls"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks directories with a trailing slash (\fB/\fR), doors with a trailing
greater-than sign (\fB>\fR), executable files with a trailing asterisk
(\fB*\fR), \fBFIFO\fRs with a trailing vertical bar (\fB|\fR), symbolic links
with a trailing "at" sign (\fB@\fR), and \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family sockets
with a trailing equals sign (\fB=\fR). Follows \fBsymlinks\fR named as
operands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--file-type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks entries as with \fB-F\fR with the exception of executable files.
Executable files are not marked. Follows symlinks named as operands.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually exclusive
pairs is not considered an error: \fB-C\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-m\fR and
\fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-x\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-@\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell). The
\fB-l\fR option overrides the other option specified in each pair.
.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually exclusive
groups is not considered an error: \fB-C\fR and \fB-1\fR (one), \fB-H\fR and
\fB-L\fR, \fB-c\fR and \fB-u\fR, and \fB-e\fR and \fB-E\fR, and \fB-t\fR and
\fB-S\fR. The last option specifying a specific timestamp (\fB-c\fR, \fB-u\fR,
\fB-% atime\fR , \fB-% crtime\fR, \fB-% ctime\fR, and \fB-% mtime\fR)
determines the timestamps used for sorting or in long format listings. The last
option \fB-t\fR, \fB-S\fR, or \fB-U\fR determines the sorting behavior.
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/ls"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks directories with a trailing slash (\fB/\fR), doors with a trailing
greater-than sign (\fB>\fR), executable files with a trailing asterisk
(\fB*\fR), \fBFIFO\fRs with a trailing vertical bar (\fB|\fR), symbolic links
with a trailing "at" sign (\fB@\fR), and \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family sockets
with a trailing equals sign (\fB=\fR). Follows symlinks named as operands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--file-type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks entries as with \fB-F\fR with the exception of executable files.
Executable files are not marked. Follows symlinks named as operands.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following groups of mutually
exclusive options is not considered an error: \fB-C\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell),
\fB-m\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-x\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-@\fR and \fB-l\fR
(ell), \fB-C\fR and \fB-1\fR (one), \fB-H\fR and \fB-L\fR, \fB-c\fR and
\fB-u\fR, \fB-e\fR and \fB-E\fR, \fB-t\fR and \fB-S\fR and \fB-U\fR. The last
option specifying a specific timestamp (\fB-c\fR, \fB-u\fR, \fB-% atime\fR ,
\fB-% crtime\fR, \fB-% ctime\fR, and \fB-% mtime\fR) determines the timestamps
used for sorting or in long format listings. The last \fB-t\fR, \fB-S\fR, or
\fB-U\fR option determines the sorting behavior.
.SS "/usr/xpg6/bin/ls"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks directories with a trailing slash (\fB/\fR), doors with a trailing
greater-than sign (\fB>\fR), executable files with a trailing asterisk
(\fB*\fR), \fBFIFO\fRs with a trailing vertical bar (\fB|\fR), symbolic links
with a trailing "at" sign (\fB@\fR), and \fBAF_UNIX\fR address family sockets
with a trailing equals sign (\fB=\fR). Does not follow symlinks named as
operands unless the \fB-H\fR or \fB-L\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB--file-type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Marks entries as with \fB-F\fR with the exception of executable files.
Executable files are not marked. Does not follow symlinks named as operands
unless the \fB-H\fR or \fB-L\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the options in the following mutually exclusive
pairs is not considered an error: \fB-C\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), m and
\fB-l\fR(ell), \fB-x\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell), \fB-@\fR and \fB-l\fR (ell),
\fB-C\fR and \fB-1\fR (one), \fB-H\fR and -\fB-L\fR, \fB-c\fR and \fB-u\fR,
\fB-e\fR and \fB-E\fR, \fB-t\fR and \fB-S\fR and \fB-U\fR. The last option
specifying a specific timestamp (\fB-c\fR, \fB-u\fR, \fB-% atime\fR , \fB-%
crtime\fR, \fB-% ctime\fR, and \fB-% mtime\fR) determines the timestamps used
for sorting or in long format listings. The last \fB-t\fR, \fB-S\fR, or
\fB-U\fR option determines the sorting behavior.
.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A path name of a file to be written. If the file specified is not found, a
diagnostic message is output on standard error.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBls\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRViewing File Permissions
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display detailed information about a file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -l file.1
-rw-r--r--   1 gozer    staff     206663 Mar 14 10:15 file.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permissions string above (\fB-rw-r--r--\fR) describes that the file owner
has read and write permissions, the owning group has read permissions, and
others have read permissions.

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display detailed information about a
directory.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -ld test.dir
drwxr-xr-x   2 gozer    staff          2 Mar 14 10:17 test.dir
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permissions string above (\fBdrwxr-xr-x\fR) describes that the directory
owner has read, write, and search permissions, the owning group has read and
search permissions, and others have read and search permissions.

.sp
.LP
Another example of listing file permissions is as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -l file.2
-rw-rwl---   1 gozer    staff     206663 Mar 14 10:47 file.2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The permissions string above (\fB-rw-rwl---\fR) describes that the file owner
has read and write permissions, the owning group has read and write
permissions, and the file can be locked during access.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDisplaying ACL Information on Files and Directories
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display verbose ACL information on a ZFS
file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -v file.1
-rw-r--r--   1 marks    staff     206663 Mar 14 10:15 file.1
     0:owner@:execute:deny
     1:owner@:read_data/write_data/append_data/write_xattr/write_attributes
          /write_acl/write_owner:allow
     2:group@:write_data/append_data/execute:deny
     3:group@:read_data:allow
     4:everyone@:write_data/append_data/write_xattr/execute/write_attributes
          /write_acl/write_owner:deny
     5:everyone@:read_data/read_xattr/read_attributes/read_acl/synchronize
          :allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to display compact ACL information on a ZFS
directory.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% ls -dV test.dir
drwxr-xr-x   2 marks    staff          2 Mar 14 10:17 test.dir
            owner@:--------------:------:deny
            owner@:rwxp---A-W-Co-:------:allow
            group@:-w-p----------:------:deny
            group@:r-x-----------:------:allow
            everyone@:-w-p---A-W-Co-:------:deny
            everyone@:r-x---a-R-c--s:------:allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example illustrates the \fBls\fR \fB-v\fR behavior when listing
ACL  information on a UFS file.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ ls -v file.3
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root        2703 Mar 14 10:59 file.3
     0:user::rw-
     1:group::r--               #effective:r--
     2:mask:r--
     3:other:r--
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRPrinting the Names of All Files
.sp
.LP
The following example prints the names of all files in the current directory,
including those that begin with a dot (\fB\&.\fR), which normally do not print:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBls -a\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRProviding File Information
.sp
.LP
The following example provides file information:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -aisn
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This command provides information on \fBa\fRll files, including those that
begin with a dot (\fBa\fR), the \fBi\fR-number, the memory address of the
i-node associated with the file\(emprinted in the left-hand column (\fBi\fR);
the \fBs\fRize (in blocks) of the files, printed in the column to the right of
the i-numbers (\fBs\fR); finally, the report is displayed in the \fBn\fRumeric
version of the long list, printing the \fBUID\fR (instead of user name) and
\fBGID\fR (instead of group name) numbers associated with the files.

.sp
.LP
When the sizes of the files in a directory are listed, a total count of blocks,
including indirect blocks, is printed.

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRProviding Extended System Attributes Information
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -/ c file    (extended system attribute in compact mode)
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
                         {AHRSadim-u--}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example, \fBav_quarantined\fR, \fBoffline\fR, and \fBsparse\fR
are not set.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -/ v file (extended system attribute in verbose mode)
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
		{archive,hidden,readonly,system,\e
		 appendonly,nodump,immutable,av_modified,\e
		 noav_quarantined,nounlink,nooffline,\e
		 nosparse}

example% ls -/ v file     (no extended system attribute)
-rw-r--r--  1 root    staff        0 May 16 14:48 file
               {}

example% ls -/ c file        (extended system attribute
                              supported file system)

-rw-r--r--  1 root staff        3 Jun  4 22:04 file
               {A------m----}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fBarchive\fR and \fBav_modified\fR attributes are set by default on  an
extended system attribute supported file.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -/ c  -%crtime file

-rw-r--r--    root     root          0 May 10 14:17 file
               {AHRSadim-u--}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This example displays the timestamp as the creation time:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% ls -l -%all file
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17    file
                timestamp: atime    Jun 14 08:47:37 2007
                timestamp: ctime    May 10 14:20:23 2007
                timestamp: mtime    May 10 14:17:56 2007
                timestamp: crtime   May 10 14:17:56 2007

example% ls -%crtime -tl file*

-rw-r--r--   1 foo      staff          3 Jun  4 22:04 file1
-rw-r--r--   1 root     root           0 May 10 14:17 file
-rw-r--r--   1 foo      staff          0 May  9 13:49 file.1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this example the files are sorted by creation time.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBls\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR,
\fBNLSPATH\fR, and \fBTZ\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOLUMNS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determines the user's preferred column position width for writing multiple
text-column output. If this variable contains a string representing a decimal
integer, the \fBls\fR utility calculates how many path name text columns to
write (see \fB-C\fR) based on the width provided. If \fBCOLUMNS\fR is not set
or is invalid, 80 is used. The column width chosen to write the names of files
in any given directory is constant. File names are not be truncated to fit into
the multiple text-column output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLS_COLORS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determines the coloring scheme used when displaying color output. If not set
and color output is specified, a default scheme is used. If TERM is not set, no
color output is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTERM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Determine the terminal type. If this variable is unset or NULL, no color output
is generated regardless of the value of the --color option.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All information was written successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/group\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
group IDs for \fBls\fR \fB-l\fR and \fBls\fR \fB-g\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/passwd\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
user IDs for \fBls\fR \fB-l\fR and \fBls\fR \fB-o\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/terminfo/?/*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
terminal information database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/ls"

.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For all options except \fB-A\fR, \fB-b\fR, \fB-e\fR, \fB-E,\fR \fB-h\fR,
\fB-S\fR, U \fB-v\fR, \fB-V\fR, \fB-@\fR, \fB-/\fR, \fB-%\fR, \fB--all\fR,
\fB--almost-all\fR, \fB--block-size\fR, \fB--classify\fR, \fB--color\fR,
\fB--colour\fR, \fB--dereference\fR, \fB--dereference-command-line\fR,
\fB--escape\fR, \fB--file-type\fR, \fB--full-time\fR, \fB--human-readable\fR,
\fB--ignore-backups\fR, \fB--inode\fR, \fB--no-group\fR,
\fB--numeric-uid-gid\fR, \fB--reverse\fR, \fB--recursive\fR, \fB--si\fR,
\fB--size\fR, and \fB--time-style\fR, see \fBstandards\fR(5).
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/ls"

.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For all options except \fB-A\fR, \fB-b\fR, \fB-e\fR, \fB-E,\fR \fB-h\fR,
\fB-S\fR, U \fB-v\fR, \fB-V\fR, \fB-@\fR, \fB-/\fR, \fB-%\fR, \fB--all\fR,
\fB--almost-all\fR, \fB--block-size\fR, \fB--classify\fR, \fB--color\fR,
\fB--colour\fR, \fB--dereference\fR, \fB--dereference-command-line\fR,
\fB--escape\fR, \fB--file-type\fR, \fB--full-time\fR, \fB--human-readable\fR,
\fB--ignore-backups\fR, \fB--inode\fR, \fB--no-group\fR,
\fB--numeric-uid-gid\fR, \fB--reverse\fR, \fB--recursive\fR, \fB--si\fR,
\fB--size\fR, and \fB--time-style\fR, see \fBstandards\fR(5).
.SS "/usr/xpg6/bin/ls"

.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
For all options except \fB-A\fR, \fB-b\fR, \fB-e\fR, \fB-E,\fR \fB-h\fR,
\fB-S\fR, U \fB-v\fR, \fB-V\fR, \fB-@\fR, \fB-/\fR, \fB-%\fR, \fB--all\fR,
\fB--almost-all\fR, \fB--block-size\fR, \fB--classify\fR, \fB--color\fR,
\fB--colour\fR, \fB--dereference\fR, \fB--dereference-command-line\fR,
\fB--escape\fR, \fB--file-type\fR, \fB--full-time\fR, \fB--human-readable\fR,
\fB--ignore-backups\fR, \fB--inode\fR, \fB--no-group\fR,
\fB--numeric-uid-gid\fR, \fB--reverse\fR, \fB--recursive\fR, \fB--si\fR,
\fB--size\fR, and \fB--time-style\fR, see \fBstandards\fR(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBcp\fR(1), \fBsetfacl\fR(1), \fBfgetattr\fR(3C),
\fBstrftime\fR(3C), \fBterminfo\fR(4), \fBacl\fR(5), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBfsattr\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Unprintable characters in file names can confuse the columnar output options.
.sp
.LP
The total block count is incorrect if there are hard links among the files.
.sp
.LP
The sort order of \fBls\fR output is affected by the locale and can be
overridden by the \fBLC_COLLATE\fR environment variable. For example, if
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR equals \fBC\fR, dot files appear first, followed by names
beginning with upper-case letters, then followed by names beginning with
lower-case letters. But if \fBLC_COLLATE\fR equals \fBen_US.ISO8859-1\fR, then
leading dots as well as case are ignored in determining the sort order.
