.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH MAILX 1 "Dec 18, 2014"
.SH NAME
mailx \- interactive message processing system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmailx\fR [\fB-BdeHiInNURvV~\fR] [\fB-f\fR [\fIfile\fR | \fI+folder\fR]] [\fB-T\fR \fIfile\fR]
     [\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBmailx\fR [\fB-BdFintUv~\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIbcc\fR] [\fB-c\fR \fIcc\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fInumber\fR]
     [\fB-r\fR \fIaddress\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIsubject\fR] \fIrecipient\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/mail\fR ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/Mail\fR ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The mail utilities listed above provide a comfortable, flexible environment for
sending and receiving mail messages electronically.
.sp
.LP
When reading mail, the mail utilities provide commands to facilitate saving,
deleting, and responding to messages. When sending mail, the mail utilities
allow editing, reviewing and other modification of the message as it is
entered.
.sp
.LP
Incoming mail is stored in a standard file for each user, called the
\fBmailbox\fR for that user. When the mail utilities are called to read
messages, the \fBmailbox\fR is the default place to find them. As messages are
read, they are marked to be moved to a secondary file for storage, unless
specific action is taken, so that the messages need not be seen again.This
secondary file is called the \fBmbox\fR and is normally located in the user's
\fBHOME\fR directory (see \fBMBOX\fR in ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES for a description
of this file). Messages can be saved in other secondary files named by the
user. Messages remain in a secondary file until forcibly removed.
.sp
.LP
The user can access a secondary file by using the \fB-f\fR option. Messages in
the secondary file can then be read or otherwise processed using the same
\fBCommands\fR as in the primary \fBmailbox\fR. This gives rise within these
pages to the notion of a current \fBmailbox\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
On the command line options start with a dash (\(mi). Any other arguments are
taken to be destinations (recipients). If no recipients are specified,
\fBmailx\fR attempts to read messages from the \fBmailbox\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Do not buffer standard input or standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fIbcc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Set the blind carbon copy list to \fIbcc\fR. \fIbcc\fR should be enclosed in
quotes if it contains more than one name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Set the carbon copy list to \fIcc\fR. \fIcc\fR should be enclosed in quotes if
it contains more than one name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Turn on debugging output. (Neither particularly interesting nor recommended.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Test for the presence of mail. \fBmailx\fR prints nothing and exits with a
successful return code if there is mail to read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Record the message in a file named after the first recipient. Overrides the
\fBrecord\fR variable, if set (see \fBInternal Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-f\fR\fB [\fR\fIfile\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Read messages from \fIfile\fR instead of \fBmailbox\fR. If no \fIfile\fR is
specified, the \fBmbox\fR is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fB-f\fR\fB [ \fR\fB+\fR\fIfolder\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Use the file \fIfolder\fR in the folder directory (same as the \fBfold\fRer
command). The name of this directory is listed in the \fBfolder\fR variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Print header summary only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The number of network "hops" made so far. This is provided for network software
to avoid infinite delivery loops. This option and its argument are passed to
the delivery program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-I\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Include the newsgroup and article-id header lines when printing mail messages.
This option requires the \fB-f\fR option to be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Ignore interrupts. See also \fBignore\fR in \fBInternal Variables\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Do not print initial header summary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Do not initialize from the system default \fBmailx.rc\fR or \fBMail.rc\fR file.
See USAGE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIaddress\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Use \fIaddress\fR as the return address when invoking the delivery program. All
tilde commands are disabled. This option and its argument is passed to the
delivery program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsubject\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Set the Subject header field to \fIsubject\fR. \fIsubject\fR should be enclosed
in quotes if it contains embedded white space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Message-id and article-id header lines are recorded in \fIfile\fR after the
message is read. This option also sets the \fB-I\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Scan the input for \fBTo:\fR, \fBCc:\fR, and \fBBcc:\fR fields. Any recipients
on the command line will be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-U\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Convert \fBUUCP-style\fR addresses to internet standards.  Overrides the
\fBconv\fR environment variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Read \fIuser\fR's \fBmailbox\fR. This is only effective if \fIuser\fR's
\fBmailbox\fR is not read protected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Print the \fBmailx\fR version number and exit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Pass the \fB-v\fR flag to \fBsendmail\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-~\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Interpret tilde escapes in the input even if not reading from a tty.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrecipient\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Addressee of message.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "Starting Mail"
.LP
At startup time, \fBmailx\fR executes the system startup file
\fB/etc/mail/mailx.rc\fR. If invoked as \fBmail\fR or \fBMail\fR, the system
startup file \fB/etc/mail/Mail.rc\fR is used instead.
.sp
.LP
The system startup file sets  up initial display options and alias lists and
assigns values to some internal variables. These variables are flags and valued
parameters which are set and cleared using the \fBse\fRt and \fBuns\fRet
commands. See \fBInternal Variables\fR.
.sp
.LP
With the following exceptions, regular commands are legal inside startup files:
\fB!\fR, \fBC\fRopy, \fBe\fRdit, \fBfo\fRllowup, \fBF\fRollowup, \fBho\fRld,
\fBm\fRail, \fBpre\fRserve, \fBr\fReply, \fBR\fReply, \fBsh\fRell, and
\fBv\fRisual. An error in the startup file causes the remaining lines in the
file to be ignored.
.sp
.LP
After executing the system startup file,  the mail utilities execute the
optional personal startup file \fB$HOME/.mailrc\fR, wherein the user can
override the values of the internal variables as set by the system startup
file.
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-n\fR option is specified, however, the mail utilities do not execute
the system startup file.
.sp
.LP
Many system administrators include the commands
.sp
.in +2
.nf
set appenddeadletter
unset replyall
unset pipeignore
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
in the system startup files (to be compatible with past Solaris behavior), but
this does not meet standards requirements for \fBmailx\fR. To get standard
behavior for \fBmailx\fR, users should use the \fB-n\fR option or include the
following commands in a personal startup file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unset appenddeadletter
set replyall
set pipeignore
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
When reading mail, the mail utilities are in \fIcommand mode\fR. A header
summary of the first several messages is displayed, followed by a prompt
indicating the mail utilities can accept regular commands (see \fBCommands\fR
below). When sending mail, the mail utilities are in \fIinput mode\fR. If no
subject is specified on the command line, and the \fBasksub\fR variable is set,
a prompt for the subject is printed.
.sp
.LP
As the message is typed, the mail utilities read the message and store it in a
temporary file. Commands may be entered by beginning a line with the tilde (~)
escape character followed by a single command letter and optional arguments.
See \fBTilde Escapes\fR for a summary of these commands.
.SS "Reading Mail"
.LP
Each message is assigned a sequential number, and there is at any time the
notion of a current message, marked by a right angle bracket (>) in the header
summary. Many commands take an optional list of messages (\fImessage-list\fR)
to operate on.  In most cases, the current message is set to the
highest-numbered message in the list after the command is finished executing.
.sp
.LP
The default for \fImessage-list\fR is the current message. A \fImessage-list\fR
is a list of message identifiers separated by spaces, which may include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Message number \fIn\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The current message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB^\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The first undeleted message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The last message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
All messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The next undeleted message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The previous undeleted message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIn\fR\fB\(mi\fR\fIm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
An inclusive range of message numbers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
All messages from \fIuser\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fI/string\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
All messages with \fIstring\fR in the Subject line (case ignored).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:\fR\fIc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
All messages of type \fIc\fR, where \fIc\fR is one of:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
deleted messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
new messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBo\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
old messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
read messages
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
unread messages
.RE

Notice that the context of the command determines whether this type of message
specification makes sense.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Other arguments are usually arbitrary strings whose usage depends on the
command involved. Filenames, where expected, are expanded using the normal
shell conventions (see \fBsh\fR(1)). Special characters are recognized by
certain commands and are documented with the commands below.
.SS "Sending Mail"
.LP
Recipients listed on the command line may be of three types: login names, shell
commands, or alias groups. Login names may be any network address, including
mixed network addressing. If mail is found to be undeliverable, an attempt is
made to return it to the sender's \fBmailbox\fR. If the \fBexpandaddr\fR option
is not set (the default), then the following rules do not apply and the name of
the recipient must be a local mailbox or network address. If the recipient name
begins with a pipe symbol ( | ), the rest of the name is taken to be a shell
command to pipe the message through. This provides an automatic interface with
any program that reads the standard input, such as \fBlp\fR(1) for recording
outgoing mail on paper.
.sp
.LP
Alias groups are set by the \fBa\fRlias command (see \fBCommands\fR below) or in
a system startup file (for example, \fB$HOME/.mailrc\fR). Aliases are lists of
recipients of any type.
.SS "Forwarding Mail"
.LP
To forward a specific message, include it in a message to the desired
recipients with the \fB~f\fR or \fB~m\fR tilde escapes. See \fBTilde\fR
\fBEscapes\fR below. To forward mail automatically, add a comma-separated list
of addresses for additional recipients to the \fB\&.forward\fR file in your
home directory. This is different from the format of the \fBalias\fR command,
which takes a space-separated list instead. \fBNote:\fR Forwarding addresses
must be valid, or the messages will "bounce." You cannot, for instance, reroute
your mail to a new host by forwarding it to your new address if it is not yet
listed in the \fBNIS\fR aliases domain.
.SS "Commands"
.LP
Regular commands are of the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[ \fIcommand\fR ] [ \fImessage-list\fR ] [ \fIarguments\fR ]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In \fIinput mode\fR, commands are recognized by the escape character,
\fBtilde(~)\fR, and lines not treated as commands are taken as input for the
message. If no command is specified in \fIcommand mode\fR, \fBn\fRext is
assumed. The following is a complete list of \fBmailx\fR commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fIshell-command\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Escape to the shell. See \fBSHELL\fR in ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB#\fR \fIcomment\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fINULL\fR command (comment). Useful in \fBmailrc\fR files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB=\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the current message number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB?\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints a summary of commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa\fRlias \fIalias name\fR .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBg\fRroup \fIalias name\fR .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Declare an alias for the given names. The names are substituted when
\fBalias\fR is used as a recipient. Useful in the \fBmailrc\fR file. With no
arguments, the command displays the list of defined aliases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBalt\fRernates \fIname .\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Declare a list of alternate names for your login. When responding to a message,
these names are removed from the list of recipients for the response. With no
arguments, print the current list of alternate names. See also \fBallnet\fR in
\fBInternal Variables\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcd\fR [\fIdirectory\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBch\fRdir [\fIdirectory\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Change directory. If \fIdirectory\fR is not specified, \fB$HOME\fR is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBc\fRopy [\fIfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBc\fRopy [\fImessage-list\fR] \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Copy messages to the file without marking the messages as saved. Otherwise
equivalent to the \fBs\fRave command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBC\fRopy [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the author of
the message to be saved, without marking the messages as saved. Otherwise
equivalent to the \fBS\fRave command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fRelete [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete messages from the \fBmailbox\fR. If \fBautoprint\fR is set, the next
message after the last one deleted is printed (see \fBInternal Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdi\fRscard [\fIheader-field\fR.\|.\|.\|]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBig\fRnore [\fIheader-field\fR.\|.\|.\|]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress printing of the specified header fields when displaying messages on
the screen. Examples of header fields to ignore are \fBStatus\fR and
\fBReceived\fR. The fields are included when the message is saved, unless the
\fBalwaysignore\fR variable is set. The \fBMo\fRre, \fBPa\fRge, \fBP\fRrint,
and \fBT\fRype commands override this command. If no header is specified, the
current list of header fields being ignored is printed. See also the
\fBundi\fRscard and \fBunig\fRnore commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdp\fR [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdt \fR[\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Delete the specified messages from the \fBmailbox\fR and print the next message
after the last one deleted. Roughly equivalent to a \fBd\fRelete command
followed by a \fBp\fRrint command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBec\fRho \fIstring \fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Echo the given strings (like \fBecho\fR(1)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBe\fRdit [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Edit the given messages. Each message is placed in a temporary file and the
program named by the \fBEDITOR\fR variable is invoked to edit it (see
ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES). Default editor is \fBed\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBexpandaddr\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes recipient addresses to be expanded based on the discussion in the section
\fBSending Mail\fR. Note that enabling this option allows for addresses that can
cause arbitrary command execution by starting with the \fB|\fR character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBex\fRit\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBx\fRit\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exit from \fBmailx\fR, without changing the \fBmailbox\fR. No messages are
saved in the \fBmbox\fR (see also \fBq\fRuit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfie\fRld [\fImessage-list\fR] header-file\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Display the value of the header field in the specified message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfi\fRle [\fIfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBfold\fRer [\fIfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Quit from the current file of messages and read in the specified file. Several
special characters are recognized when used as file names:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
the current \fBmailbox\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
the \fBmailbox\fR for \fIuser\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB#\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
the previous mail file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB&\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
the current \fBmbox\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The named file in the \fIfolder\fR directory (listed in the \fBfolder\fR
variable).
.RE

With no arguments, print the name of the current mail file, and the number of
messages and characters it contains.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfolders\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the names of the files in the directory set by the \fBfolder\fR variable
(see \fBInternal Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFo\fRllowup [\fImessage\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Respond to a message, recording the response in a file whose name is derived
from the author of the message. Overrides the \fBrecord\fR variable, if set. If
the \fBreplyall\fR variable is set, the actions of \fBFo\fRllowup and
\fBfo\fRllowup are reversed. See also the \fBf\fRollowup, \fBS\fRave, and
\fBC\fRopy commands and \fBoutfolder\fR in \fBInternal Variables\fR, and the
\fBStarting Mail\fR section in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBf\fRollowup [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Respond to the first message in the \fImessage-list\fR, sending the message to
the author of each message in the \fImessage-list\fR. The subject line is taken
from the first message and the response is recorded in a file whose name is
derived from the author of the first message. If the \fBreplyall\fR variable is
set, the actions of \fBfo\fRllowup and \fBFo\fRllowup are reversed. See also
the \fBFo\fRllowup, \fBS\fRave, and \fBC\fRopy commands and \fBoutfolder\fR in
\fBInternal Variables\fR, and the \fBStarting Mail\fR section in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBf\fRrom [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the header summary for the specified messages. If no messages are
specified, print the header summary for the current message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBg\fRroup \fIalias name \fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBa\fRlias \fIalias name \fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Declare an alias for the given names. The names are substituted when
\fBalias\fR is used as a recipient. Useful in the \fBmailrc\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBh\fReaders [\fImessage\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the page of headers which includes the message specified. The
\fBscreen\fR variable sets the number of headers per page (see \fBInternal
Variables\fR). See also the \fBz\fR command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhel\fRp\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print a summary of commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBho\fRld [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBpre\fRserve [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Hold the specified messages in the \fBmailbox\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBi\fRf \fBs\fR | \fBr\fR | \fBt\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fImail-commands\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBel\fRse\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fImail-commands\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBen\fRdif\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Conditional execution, where \fIs\fR executes following \fImail-commands\fR, up
to an \fBel\fRse or \fBen\fRdif, if the program is in \fIsend\fR mode, \fIr\fR
causes the \fImail-commands\fR to be executed only in \fIreceive\fR mode, and
\fBt\fR causes the \fImail-commands\fR to be executed only if \fBmailx\fR is
being run from a terminal. Useful in the \fBmailrc\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Incorporate messages that arrive while you are reading the system mailbox. The
new messages are added to the message list in the current \fBmail\fR session.
This command does not commit changes made during the session, and prior
messages are not renumbered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBig\fRnore [\fIheader-field \fR.\|.\|.\|]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBdi\fRscard [\fIheader-field \fR.\|.\|.\|]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress printing of the specified header fields when displaying messages on
the screen. Examples of header fields to ignore are \fBStatus\fR and \fBCc\fR.
All fields are included when the message is saved. The \fBMo\fRre, \fBPa\fRge,
\fBP\fRrint and \fBT\fRype commands override this command. If no header is
specified, the current list of header fields being ignored is printed. See also
the \fBundi\fRscard and \fBunig\fRnore commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBl\fRist\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print all commands available. No explanation is given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlo\fRad\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
[\fImessage\fR] \fBfile\fR The specified message is replaced by the message in
the named file. \fBfile\fR should contain a single mail message including mail
headers (as saved by the \fBs\fRave command).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBm\fRail \fIrecipient \fR.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mail a message to the specified recipients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBM\fRail \fIrecipient\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Mail a message to the specified recipients, and record it in a file whose name
is derived from the author of the message. Overrides the \fBrecord\fR variable,
if set. See also the \fBSave\fR and \fBCopy\fR commands and \fBoutfolder\fR in
\fBInternal Variables\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmb\fRox [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Arrange for the given messages to end up in the standard \fBmbox\fR save file
when \fBmailx\fR terminates normally. See \fBMBOX\fR in ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
for a description of this file. See also the \fBex\fRit and \fBq\fRuit
commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmo\fRre [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBpa\fRge [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the specified messages. If \fBcrt\fR is set, the messages longer than the
number of lines specified by the \fBcrt\fR variable are paged through the
command specified by the \fBPAGER\fR variable. The default command is
\fBpg\fR(1) or if the \fBbsdcompat\fR variable is set, the default is
\fBmore\fR(1). See ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES. Same as the \fBp\fRrint and
\fBt\fRype commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMo\fRre [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBPa\fRge [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the specified messages on the screen, including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the \fBig\fRnore command. Same as the
\fBP\fRrint and \fBT\fRype commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBne\fRw [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBN\fRew [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBunr\fRead [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBU\fRnread\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
[\fImessage-list\fR] Take a message list and mark each message as \fInot\fR
having been read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn\fRext [\fImessage\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Go to the next message matching \fImessage\fR. If message is not supplied, this
command finds the next message that was not deleted or saved. A
\fImessage-list\fR may be specified, but in this case the first valid message
in the list is the only one used. This is useful for jumping to the next
message from a specific user, since the name would be taken as a command in the
absence of a real command. See the discussion of \fImessage-list\fR above for a
description of possible message specifications.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpi\fRpe [\fImessage-list\fR] [\fIshell-command\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB|\fR [\fImessage-list\fR] [\fIshell-command\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pipe the message through the given \fIshell-command\fR. The message is treated
as if it were read. If no arguments are given, the current message is piped
through the command specified by the value of the \fBcmd\fR variable. If the
\fBpage\fR variable is set, a form feed character is inserted after each
message (see \fBInternal Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpre\fRserve [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBho\fRld [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Preserve the specified messages in the \fBmailbox\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fRrint [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBt\fRype [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the specified messages. If \fBcrt\fR is set, the messages longer than the
number of lines specified by the \fBcrt\fR variable are paged through the
command specified by the \fBPAGER\fR variable. The default command is
\fBpg\fR(1) or if the \fBbsdcompat\fR variable is set, the default is
\fBmore\fR(1). See ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES. Same as the \fBmo\fRre and \fBpa\fRge
commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBP\fRrint [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBT\fRype [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the specified messages on the screen, including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the \fBig\fRnore command.  Same as the
\fBMo\fRre and \fBPa\fRge commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpu\fRt [\fIfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBpu\fRt [\fImessage-list\fR] \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the specified message in the given file. Use the same conventions as the
\fBp\fRrint command for which header fields are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPu\fRt [\fIfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBPu\fRt [\fImessage-list\fR] \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the specified message in the given file. Overrides suppression of fields
by the \fBig\fRnore command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBq\fRuit\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exit from \fBmailx\fR, storing messages that were read in \fBmbox\fR and unread
messages in the \fBmailbox\fR. Messages that have been explicitly saved in a
file are deleted unless the \fBkeepsave\fR variable is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fReply [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBr\fRespond [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBreplys\fRender [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send a response to the author of each message in the \fImessage-list\fR. The
subject line is taken from the first message.  If \fBrecord\fR is set to a
file, a copy of the reply is added to that file. If the \fBreplyall\fR variable
is set, the actions of \fBR\fReply/\fBR\fRespond and \fBr\fReply/\fBr\fRespond
are reversed. The \fBreplys\fRender command is not affected by the
\fBreplyall\fR variable, but sends each reply only to the sender of each
message. See the \fBStarting Mail\fR section in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBR\fReply [\fImessage\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBR\fRespond [\fImessage\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBreplya\fRll [\fImessage\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reply to the specified message, including all other recipients of that message.
If the variable \fBrecord\fR is set to a file, a copy of the reply added to
that file. If the \fBreplyall\fR variable is set, the actions of
\fBR\fReply/\fBR\fRespond and \fBr\fReply/\fBr\fRespond are reversed. The
\fBreplya\fRll command is not affected by the \fBreplyall\fR variable, but
always sends the reply to all recipients of the message. See the \fBStarting
Mail\fR section in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBret\fRain\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add the list of header fields named to the \fIretained list\fR. Only the header
fields in the retain list are shown on your terminal when you print a message.
All other header fields are suppressed.  The set of retained fields specified
by the \fBret\fRain command overrides any list of ignored fields specified by
the \fBig\fRnore command. The \fBT\fRype and \fBP\fRrint commands can be used
to print a message in its entirety. If \fBret\fRain is executed with no
arguments, it lists the current set of retained fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\fRave [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the specified messages in a file whose name is derived from the author of
the first message. The name of the file is taken to be the author's name with
all network addressing stripped off. See also the \fBC\fRopy, \fBfo\fRllowup,
and \fBF\fRollowup commands and \fBoutfolder\fR in \fBInternal Variables\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fRave [\fIfile\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBs\fRave [\fImessage-list\fR] \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the specified messages in the given file. The file is created if it does
not exist. The file defaults to \fBmbox\fR. The message is deleted from the
\fBmailbox\fR when \fBmailx\fR terminates unless \fBkeepsave\fR is set (see
also \fBInternal Variables\fR and the \fBex\fRit and \fBq\fRuit commands).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBse\fRt\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBse\fRt \fIvariable\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBse\fRt \fIvariable\fR\fB=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBse\fRt \fIvariable\fR\fB=\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Define a \fIvariable\fR. To assign a \fIvalue\fR to \fIvariable\fR, separate
the variable name from the value by an `\fB=\fR' (there must be no space before
or after the `\fB=\fR'). A variable may be given a null, string, or numeric
\fIvalue\fR. To embed SPACE characters within a \fIvalue\fR, enclose it in
quotes.
.sp
With no arguments, \fBse\fRt displays all defined variables and any values they
might have. See \fBInternal Variables\fR for a description of all predefined
\fBmail\fR variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsh\fRell\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invoke an interactive shell. See also \fBSHELL\fR in ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsi\fRze [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the size in characters of the specified messages.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBso\fRurce \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read commands from the given file and return to command mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBto\fRp [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the top few lines of the specified messages. If the \fBtoplines\fR
variable is set, it is taken as the number of lines to print (see \fBInternal
Variables\fR). The default is 5.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtou\fRch [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Touch the specified messages. If any message in \fImessage-list\fR is not
specifically saved in a file, it is placed in the \fBmbox\fR, or the file
specified in the \fBMBOX\fR environment variable, upon normal termination. See
\fBex\fRit and \fBq\fRuit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT\fRype [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBP\fRrint [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the specified messages on the screen, including all header fields.
Overrides suppression of fields by the \fBig\fRnore command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt\fRype [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBp\fRrint [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the specified messages. If \fBcrt\fR is set, the messages longer than the
number of lines specified by the \fBcrt\fR variable are paged through the
command specified by the \fBPAGER\fR variable. The default command is
\fBpg\fR(1). See ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuna\fRlias [\fBalias\fR] .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBung\fRroup [\fBalias\fR] .\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the definitions of the specified aliases.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBu\fRndelete [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Restore the specified deleted messages. Will only restore messages deleted in
the current mail session. If \fBautoprint\fR is set, the last message of those
restored is printed (see \fBInternal Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBundi\fRscard [\fIheader-field\fR\|.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBunig\fRnore [\fIheader-field\fR\|.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the specified header fields from the list being ignored. If no header
fields are specified, all header fields are removed from the list being
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunret\fRain [\fIheader-field\fR\|.\|.\|.]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove the specified header fields from the list being retained. If no header
fields are specified, all header fields are removed from the list being
retained.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunr\fRead [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBU\fRnread [\fImessage-list\fR] Same as the \fBne\fRw command.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuns\fRet \fIvariable\fR\|.\|.\|.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erase the specified variables. If the variable was imported from the
environment (that is, an environment variable or exported shell variable), it
cannot be unset from within \fBmailx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBve\fRrsion\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print the current version and release date of the \fBmailx\fR utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBv\fRisual [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Edit the given messages with a screen editor. Each messages is placed in a
temporary file and the program named by the \fBVISUAL\fR variable is invoked to
edit it (see ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES). Notice that the default visual editor is
\fBvi\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBw\fRrite [\fImessage-list\fR] \fBfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write the given messages on the specified file, minus the header and trailing
blank line. Otherwise equivalent to the \fBs\fRave command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBx\fRit\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBex\fRit\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Exit from \fBmailx\fR, without changing the \fBmailbox\fR. No messages are
saved in the \fBmbox\fR (see also \fBq\fRuit).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBz\fR[\fB+\fR\||\|\fB\(mi\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Scroll the header display forward or backward one screen\(mifull. The number of
headers displayed is set by the \fBscreen\fR variable (see \fBInternal
Variables\fR).
.RE

.SS "Tilde Escapes"
.LP
The following tilde escape commands can be used when composing mail to send.
These may be entered only from \fIinput mode\fR, by beginning a line with the
tilde escape character (~). See \fBescape\fR in \fBInternal Variables\fR for
changing this special character. The escape character can be entered as text by
typing it twice.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~\|!\fR\fIshell-command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Escape to the shell. If present, run \fIshell-command\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Simulate end of file (terminate message input).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~\|:\fR\fImail-command\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB~_\|\fR\fImail-command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Perform the command-level request. Valid only when sending a message while
reading mail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Print a summary of tilde escapes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Insert the autograph string \fBSign\fR into the message (see \fBInternal
Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Insert the autograph string \fBsign\fR into the message (see \fBInternal
Variables\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~b\fR\fI name \|.\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Add the \fIname\fRs to the blind carbon copy (\fBBcc\fR) list. This is like the
carbon copy (\fBCc\fR) list, except that the names in the \fBBcc\fR list are
not shown in the header of the mail message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~c\fR\fI name \|.\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Add the \fIname\fRs to the carbon copy (\fBCc\fR) list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Read in the \fBdead-letter\fR file. See \fBDEAD\fR in ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES for
a description of this file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Invoke the editor on the partial message. See also \fBEDITOR\fR in ENVIRONMENT
VARIABLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~f\fR [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Forward the specified message, or the current message being read. Valid only
when sending a message while reading mail. The messages are inserted into the
message without alteration (as opposed to the \fB~m\fR escape).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~F\fR [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Forward the specified message, or the current message being read, including all
header fields. Overrides the suppression of fields by the \fBig\fRnore command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Prompt for \fBSubject\fR line and \fBTo\fR, \fBCc\fR, and \fBBcc\fR lists. If
the field is displayed with an initial value, it may be edited as if you had
just typed it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~i\fR \fIvariable\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Insert the value of the named variable into the text of the message. For
example, \fB~A\fR is equivalent to `\fB~i Sign\fR.' Environment variables set
and exported in the shell are also accessible by \fB~i\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~m\fR [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Insert the listed messages, or the current message being read into the letter.
Valid only when sending a message while reading mail. The text of the message
is shifted to the right, and the string contained in the \fBindentprefix\fR
variable is inserted as the leftmost characters of each line. If
\fBindentprefix\fR is not set, a TAB character is inserted into each line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~M\fR [\fImessage-list\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Insert the listed messages, or the current message being read, including the
header fields, into the letter. Valid only when sending a message while reading
mail. The text of the message is shifted to the right, and the string contained
in the \fBindentprefix\fR variable is inserted as the leftmost characters of
each line. If \fBindentprefix\fR is not set, a TAB character is inserted into
each line. Overrides the suppression of fields by the \fBig\fRnore command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Print the message being entered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Quit from input mode by simulating an interrupt. If the body of the message is
not null, the partial message is saved in \fBdead-letter\fR. See \fBDEAD\fR in
ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES for a description of this file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Mark message for return receipt.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~r\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB~<\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB~< ! \fR\fIshell-command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Read in the specified file. If the argument begins with an exclamation point
(!), the rest of the string is taken as an arbitrary shell command and is
executed, with the standard output inserted into the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~s\fR \fIstring \|.\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Set the subject line to \fIstring\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~t\fR \fIname \|.\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Add the given \fIname\fRs to the To list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Invoke a preferred screen editor on the partial message. The default visual
editor is \fBvi\fR(1). See also \fBVISUAL\fR in ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~w\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Write the message into the given file, without the header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Exit as with \fB~q\fR except the message is not saved in \fBdead-letter\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~|\fR \fIshell-command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Pipe the body of the message through the given \fIshell-command\fR. If the
\fIshell-command\fR returns a successful exit status, the output of the command
replaces the message.
.RE

.SS "Internal Variables"
.LP
The following variables are internal variables. They may be imported from the
execution environment or set using the \fBse\fRt command at any time. The
\fBuns\fRet command may be used to erase variables.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBallnet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
All network names whose last component (login name) match are treated as
identical. This causes the \fImessage-list\fR message specifications to behave
similarly. Disabled by default. See also the \fBalt\fRernates command and the
\fBmetoo\fR and \fBfuzzymatch\fR variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBalwaysignore\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Ignore header fields with \fBig\fRnore everywhere, not just during \fBp\fRrint
or \fBt\fRype. Affects the \fBs\fRave, \fBS\fRave, \fBc\fRopy, \fBC\fRopy,
\fBto\fRp, \fBpi\fRpe, and \fBw\fRrite commands, and the \fB~m\fR and \fB~f\fR
tilde escapes. Enabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBappend\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Upon termination, append messages to the end of the \fBmbox\fR file instead of
prepending them. Although disabled by default, \fBappend\fR is set in the
system startup file (which can be suppressed with the \fB-n\fR command line
option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBappenddeadletter\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Append to the deadletter file rather than overwrite it. Although disabled by
default, \fBappenddeadletter\fR is frequently set in the system startup file.
See \fBStarting Mail\fR in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaskbcc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Prompt for the \fBBcc\fR list after the \fBSubject\fR is entered if it is not
specified on the command line with the \fB-b\fR option. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaskcc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Prompt for the \fBCc\fR list after the \fBSubject\fR is entered if it is not
specified on the command line with the \fB-c\fR option. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBasksub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Prompt for subject if it is not specified on the command line with the \fB-s\fR
option. Enabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBautoinc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Automatically incorporate new messages into the current session as they arrive.
This has an affect similar to issuing the \fBinc\fR command every time the
command prompt is displayed. Disabled by default, but \fBautoinc\fR is set in
the default system startup file for \fBmailx\fR; it is not set for
\fB/usr/ucb/mail\fR or \fB/usr/ucb/Mail\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBautoprint\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Enable automatic printing of messages after \fBd\fRelete and \fBu\fRndelete
commands. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbang\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Enable the special-casing of exclamation points (!) in shell escape command
lines as in \fBvi\fR(1). Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbsdcompat\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Set automatically if \fBmailx\fR is invoked as \fBmail\fR or \fBMail\fR. Causes
\fBmailx\fR to use \fB/etc/mail/Mail.rc\fR as the system startup file. Changes
the default pager to \fBmore\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcmd=\fR\fIshell-command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Set the default command for the \fBpi\fRpe command.  No default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBconv=\fR\fIconversion\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Convert \fBuucp\fR addresses to the specified address style, which can be
either:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinternet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
This requires a mail delivery program conforming to the \fBRFC822\fR standard
for electronic mail addressing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBoptimize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Remove loops in \fBuucp\fR(1C) address paths (typically generated by the
\fBr\fReply command).  No rerouting is performed; \fBmail\fR has no knowledge
of \fBUUCP\fR routes or connections.
.RE

Conversion is disabled by default. See also \fBsendmail\fR(1M) and the \fB-U\fR
command-line option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcrt\fR[\fB=\fR\fInumber\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Pipe messages having more than \fInumber\fR lines through the command specified
by the value of the \fBPAGER\fR variable ( \fBpg\fR(1) or \fBmore\fR(1) by
default). If \fInumber\fR is not specified, the current window size is used.
Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdebug\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Enable verbose diagnostics for debugging. Messages are not delivered. Disabled
by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdot\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Take a period on a line by itself, or \fBEOF\fR during input from a terminal as
end-of-file. Disabled by default, but \fBdot\fR is set in the system startup
file (which can be suppressed with the \fB-n\fR command line option).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfcc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
By default, \fBmailx\fR will treat any address containing a slash ("/")
character as a local "send to file" address. By unsetting this option, this
behavior is disabled. Enabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflipr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Reverse the effect of the \fBfo\fRllowup/\fBFo\fRllowup and
\fBr\fReply/\fBR\fReply command pairs.  If both \fBflipr\fR and \fBreplyall\fR
are set, the effect is as if neither was set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfrom\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Extract the author listed in the header summary from the \fBFrom:\fR header
instead of the UNIX \fBFrom\fR line. Enabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfuzzymatch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The \fBfrom\fR command searches for messages from the indicated sender. By
default, the full sender address must be specified. By setting this option,
only a sub-string of the sender address need be specified. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBescape=\fR\fIc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Substitute \fIc\fR for the ~ escape character. Takes effect with next message
sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfolder=\fR\fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The directory for saving standard mail files. User-specified file names
beginning with a plus (+) are expanded by preceding the file name with this
directory name to obtain the real file name. If \fIdirectory\fR does not start
with a slash (/), \fB$HOME\fR is prepended to it.  There is no default for the
\fBfolder\fR variable. See also \fBoutfolder\fR below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBheader\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Enable printing of the header summary when entering \fBmailx\fR. Enabled by
default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhold\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Preserve all messages that are read in the \fBmailbox\fR instead of putting
them in the standard \fBmbox\fR save file. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBignore\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Ignore interrupts while entering messages. Handy for noisy dial-up lines.
Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBignoreeof\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Ignore end-of-file during message input. Input must be terminated by a period
(.) on a line by itself or by the \fB~.\fR command. See also \fBdot\fR above.
Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBindentprefix=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
When \fBindentprefix\fR is set, \fIstring\fR is used to mark indented lines
from messages included with \fB~m\fR. The default is a TAB character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkeep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
When the \fBmailbox\fR is empty, truncate it to zero length instead of removing
it. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBiprompt=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The specified prompt string is displayed before each line on input is requested
when sending a message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkeepsave\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Keep messages that have been saved in other files in the \fBmailbox\fR instead
of deleting them. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmakeremote\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
When replying to all recipients of a message, if an address does not include a
machine name, it is assumed to be relative to the sender of the message.
Normally not needed when dealing with hosts that support RFC822.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmetoo\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
If your login appears as a recipient, do not delete it from the list. Disabled
by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmustbang\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Force all mail addresses to be in bang format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBonehop\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
When responding to a message that was originally sent to several recipients,
the other recipient addresses are normally forced to be relative to the
originating author's machine for the response. This flag disables alteration of
the recipients' addresses, improving efficiency in a network where all machines
can send directly to all other machines (that is, one hop away). Disabled by
default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBoutfolder\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Locate the files used to record outgoing messages in the directory specified by
the \fBfolder\fR variable unless the path name is absolute. Disabled by
default. See \fBfolder\fR above and the \fBS\fRave, \fBC\fRopy, \fBfo\fRllowup,
and \fBF\fRollowup commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Used with the \fBpi\fRpe command to insert a form feed after each message sent
through the pipe. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpipeignore\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Omit ignored header when outputting to the \fBpipe\fR command. Although
disabled by default,  \fBpipeignore\fR is frequently set in the system startup
file. See \fBStarting Mail\fR in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpostmark\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Your "real name" to be included in the From line of messages you send.  By
default this is derived from the comment field in your \fBpasswd\fR(4) file
entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprompt=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Set the \fIcommand mode\fR prompt to \fIstring\fR. Default is "\fB? \fR",
unless the \fBbsdcompat\fR variable is set, then the default is "\fB&\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBquiet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Refrain from printing the opening message and version when entering
\fBmailx\fR. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrecord=\fR\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Record all outgoing mail in \fIfile\fR. Disabled by default. See also
\fBoutfolder\fR above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreplyall\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Reverse the effect of the \fBr\fReply and \fBR\fReply and \fBfo\fRllowup and
\fBFo\fRllowup commands. Although set by default,  \fBreplayall\fR is
frequently unset in the system startup file. See \fBflipr\fR and \fBStarting
Mail\fR in USAGE above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreturnaddr=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The default sender address is that of the current user. This variable can be
used to set the sender address to any arbitrary value. Set with caution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsave\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Enable saving of messages in \fBdead-letter\fR on interrupt or delivery error.
See \fBDEAD\fR for a description of this file. Enabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBscreen=\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Sets the number of lines in a screen-full of headers for the \fBh\fReaders
command. \fInumber\fR must be a positive number.
.sp
The default is set according to baud rate or window size. With a baud rate less
than \fB1200\fR, \fInumber\fR defaults to \fB5\fR, if baud rate is exactly
\fB1200\fR, it defaults to \fB10\fR. If you are in a window, \fInumber\fR
defaults to the default window size minus 4. Otherwise, the default is
\fB20\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsendmail=\fR\fIshell-command\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Alternate command for delivering messages. \fBNote:\fR In addition to the
expected list of recipients, \fBmail\fR also passes the \fB-i\fR and \fB-m\fR,
flags to the command. Since these flags are not appropriate to other commands,
you may have to use a shell script that strips them from the arguments list
before invoking the desired command. Default is \fB/usr/bin/rmail\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsendwait\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Wait for background mailer to finish before returning. Disabled by default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshowname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Causes the message header display to show the sender's real name (if known)
rather than their mail address. Disabled by default, but \fBshowname\fR is set
in the \fB/etc/mail/mailx.rc\fR system startup file for \fBmailx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshowto\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
When displaying the header summary and the message is from you, print the
recipient's name instead of the author's name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsign=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The variable inserted into the text of a message when the \fB~a\fR (autograph)
command is given. No default (see also \fB~i\fR in \fBTilde Escapes\fR).
.sp
`
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSign=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The variable inserted into the text of a message when the \fB~A\fR command is
given.  No default (see also \fB~i\fR in \fBTilde Escapes\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtoplines=\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The number of lines of header to print with the \fBto\fRp command. Default is
\fB5\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBverbose\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Invoke \fBsendmail\fR(1M) with the \fB-v\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtranslate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The name of a program to translate mail addresses. The program receives mail
addresses as arguments. The program produces, on the standard output, lines
containing the following data, in this order:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the postmark for the sender (see the postmark variable)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
translated mail addresses, one per line, corresponding to the program's
arguments.  Each translated address will replace the corresponding address in
the mail message being sent.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a line containing only "y" or "n".  if the line contains "y" the user will be
asked to confirm that the message should be sent.
.RE
The translate program will be invoked for each mail message to be sent. If the
program exits with a non-zero exit status, or fails to produce enough output,
the message is not sent.
.RE

.SS "Large File Behavior"
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmailx\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBmailx\fR: \fBHOME\fR, \fBLANG\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBNLSPATH\fR, and
\fBTERM\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDEAD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of the file in which to save partial letters in case of untimely
interrupt. Default is \fB$HOME/dead.letter\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDITOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The command to run when the \fBe\fRdit or \fB~e\fR command is used. Default is
\fBed\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLISTER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The command (and options) to use when listing the contents of the \fBfolder\fR
directory. The default is \fBls\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of the initial mailbox file to read (in lieu of the standard system
mailbox). The default is \fB/var/mail/\fIusername\fR .\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAILRC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of the startup file.  Default is \fB$HOME/.mailrc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAILX_HEAD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The specified string is included at the beginning of the body of each message
that is sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAILX_TAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The specified string is included at the end of the body of each message that is
sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMBOX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of the file to save messages which have been read. The \fBex\fRit
command overrides this function, as does saving the message explicitly in
another file.  Default is \fB$HOME/mbox\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAGER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The command to use as a filter for paginating output. This can also be used to
specify the options to be used.  Default is \fBpg\fR(1), or if the
\fBbsdcompat\fR variable is set, the default is \fBmore\fR(1). See \fBInternal
Variables\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHELL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of a preferred command interpreter. Default is \fBsh\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBVISUAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The name of a preferred screen editor.  Default is \fBvi\fR(1).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
When the \fB-e\fR option is specified, the following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Mail was found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Mail was not found or an error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Otherwise, the following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion. Notice that this status implies that all messages were
\fBsent\fR, but it gives no assurances that any of them were actually
\fBdelivered\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.mailrc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
 personal startup file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/mbox\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
secondary storage file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.Maillock\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
lock file to prevent multiple writers of system mailbox
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail/mailx.rc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
optional system startup file for \fBmailx\fR only
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/mail/Mail.rc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
BSD compatibility system-wide startup file for \fB/usr/ucb/mail\fR and
\fB/usr/ucb/Mail\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/R[emqsx]*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
temporary files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/mailx/mailx.help*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
help message files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/mail/*\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
post office directory
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBbiff\fR(1B), \fBecho\fR(1), \fBed\fR(1), \fBex\fR(1), \fBfmt\fR(1),
\fBlp\fR(1), \fBls\fR(1), \fBmail\fR(1), \fBmail\fR(1B), \fBmailcompat\fR(1),
\fBmore\fR(1), \fBpg\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBvacation\fR(1),
\fBvi\fR(1), \fBnewaliases\fR(1M), \fBsendmail\fR(1M), \fBaliases\fR(4),
\fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Where \fIshell-command\fR is shown as valid, arguments are not always allowed.
Experimentation is recommended.
.sp
.LP
Internal variables imported from the execution environment cannot be
\fBuns\fRet.
.sp
.LP
The full internet addressing is not fully supported by \fBmailx\fR. The new
standards need some time to settle down.
.sp
.LP
Replies do not always generate correct return addresses.  Try resending the
errant reply with \fBonehop\fR set.
.sp
.LP
\fBmailx\fR does not lock your record file. So, if you use a record file and
send two or more messages simultaneously, lines from the messages may be
interleaved in the record file.
.sp
.LP
The format for the \fBalias\fR command is a space-separated list of recipients,
while the format for an alias in either the \fB\&.forward\fR or
\fB/etc/aliases\fR is a comma-separated list.
.sp
.LP
To read mail on a workstation running Solaris 1.\fIx\fR when your mail server
is running Solaris 2.\fIx\fR, first execute the \fBmailcompat\fR(1) program.
