'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MAILCOMPAT 1 "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
mailcompat \- provide SunOS compatibility for Solaris mailbox format
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBmailcompat\fR is a program to provide SunOS 4.\fIx\fR compatibility for the
Solaris mailbox format. You would typically run  \fBmailcompat\fR to be able to
read mail on a workstation running SunOS 4.\fIx\fR when your mail server is
running Solaris.
.sp
.LP
Enabling \fBmailcompat\fR creates an entry in your  \fB\&.forward\fR file, if
it exists.  If this file does not exist, \fBmailcompat\fR will create it.
Disabling \fBmailcompat\fR will remove the entry from the \fB\&.forward\fR
file, and if this was the only entry, will remove the entire file.
.sp
.LP
To execute \fBmailcompat\fR, log onto the Solaris mail server and enter
\fBmailcompat\fR on the command line. Answer the queries provided by the
program.
.SH USAGE
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmailcompat\fR
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of the \fBmailcompat\fR feature.
.sp
.LP
The following example enables the \fBmailcompat\fR feature for the user "john".

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% mailcompat
This program can be used to store your mail in a format
that you can read with SunOS 4.X based mail readers
To enable the mailcompat feature a ".forward" file is created.
Would you like to enable the mailcompat feature? Y
Mailcompat feature ENABLED.Run mailcompat with no arguments to remove it
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following example disables the \fBmailcompat\fR feature for the user
"john".

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% mailcompat
This program can be used to store your mail in a format
that you can read with SunOS 4.X based mail readers
You have a .forward file in your home directory  containing:
    "|/usr/bin/mailcompat johns"
Would you like to remove it and disable the mailcompat feature? y
Back to normal reception of mail.
example%
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~/.forward\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
list of recipients for forwarding messages
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmailx\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
