.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH MAKE 1 "Jun 24, 2015"
.SH NAME
make \- maintain, update, and regenerate related programs and files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/make\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-dd\fR] [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-DD\fR] [\fB-e\fR]
     [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-j\fR \fImaxjobs\fR] [\fB-k\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fI{serial | parallel}\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-V\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR]... [\fB-K\fR \fIstatefile\fR]... [\fItarget\fR]...
     [\fImacro\fR = \fIvalue\fR...]
.fi

.nf
\fB/usr/bin/dmake\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-dd\fR] [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-DD\fR] [\fB-e\fR]
     [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-j\fR \fImaxjobs\fR] [\fB-k\fR]  [\fB-m\fR \fI{serial | parallel}\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-V\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR]... [\fB-K\fR \fIstatefile\fR]... [\fItarget\fR]...
     [\fImacro\fR = \fIvalue\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/make\fR [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-dd\fR] [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-DD\fR]
     [\fB-e\fR] [\fB-i\fR]  [\fB-j\fR \fImaxjobs\fR] [\fB-k\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fI{serial | parallel}\fR]
     [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-P\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-V\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR]... [\fItarget\fR]... [\fImacro\fR = \fIvalue\fR...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBmake\fR utility executes a list of shell commands associated with each
\fItarget\fR, typically to create or update a file of the same name.
\fImakefile\fR contains entries that describe how to bring a target up to date
with respect to those on which it depends, which are called \fIdependencies\fR.
Since each dependency is a target, it can have dependencies of its own.
Targets, dependencies, and sub-dependencies comprise a tree structure that
\fBmake\fR traces when deciding whether or not to rebuild a \fItarget\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmake\fR utility recursively checks each \fItarget\fR against its
dependencies, beginning with the first target entry in \fImakefile\fR if no
\fItarget\fR argument is supplied on the command line. If, after processing all
of its dependencies, a target file is found either to be missing, or to be
older than any of its dependencies, \fBmake\fR rebuilds it. Optionally with
this version of \fBmake\fR, a target can be treated as out-of-date when the
commands used to generate it have changed since the last time the target was
built.
.sp
.LP
To build a given target, \fBmake\fR executes the list of commands, called a
\fIrule\fR. This rule can be listed explicitly in the target's makefile entry,
or it can be supplied implicitly by \fBmake\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no \fItarget\fR is specified on the command line, \fBmake\fR uses the first
target defined in \fImakefile\fR.
.sp
.LP
If a \fItarget\fR has no makefile entry, or if its entry has no rule,
\fBmake\fR attempts to derive a rule by each of the following methods, in turn,
until a suitable rule is found. Each method is described under Usage below.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Pattern matching rules.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Implicit rules, read in from a user-supplied makefile.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Standard implicit rules (also known as suffix rules), typically read in from
the file \fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSCCS\fR retrieval. \fBmake\fR retrieves the most recent version from the
\fBSCCS\fR history file (if any).  See the description of the
\fB\&.SCCS_GET:\fR special-function target for details.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The rule from the \fB\&.DEFAULT:\fR target entry, if there is such an entry in
the makefile.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If there is no makefile entry for a \fItarget\fR, if no rule can be derived for
building it, and if no file by that name is present, \fBmake\fR issues an error
message and halts.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Displays the reasons why \fBmake\fR chooses to rebuild a target. \fBmake\fR
displays any and all dependencies that are newer. In addition, \fBmake\fR
displays options read in from the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR environment variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-dd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Displays the dependency check and processing in vast detail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Displays the text of the makefiles read in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-DD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Displays the text of the makefiles, \fBmake.rules\fR file, the state file, and
all hidden-dependency reports.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Environment variables override assignments within makefiles.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Uses the description file \fImakefile\fR. A \fB\(mi\fR as the \fImakefile\fR
argument denotes the standard input. The contents of \fImakefile\fR, when
present, override the standard set of implicit rules and predefined macros.
When more than one \fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR argument pair appears, \fBmake\fR
uses the concatenation of those files, in order of appearance.
.sp
When no \fImakefile\fR is specified, \fB/usr/bin/make\fR tries the following in
sequence, except when in POSIX mode (see \fB\&.POSIX\fR in Usage):
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If there is a file named \fBmakefile\fR in the working directory, \fBmake\fR
uses that file. If, however, there is an \fBSCCS\fR history file
(\fBSCCS/s.makefile\fR) which is newer, \fBmake\fR attempts to retrieve and use
the most recent version.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In the absence of the above file(s), if a file named \fBMakefile\fR is present
in the working directory, \fBmake\fR attempts to use it.  If there is an
\fBSCCS\fR history file (\fBSCCS/s.Makefile\fR) that is newer, \fBmake\fR
attempts to retrieve and use the most recent version.
.RE
When no \fImakefile\fR is specified, \fB/usr/bin/make\fR in POSIX mode and
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/make\fR try the following files in sequence:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB\&./makefile\fR, \fB\&./Makefile\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBs.makefile\fR, \fBSCCS/s.makefile\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBs.Makefile\fR, \fBSCCS/s.Makefile\fR
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Ignores error codes returned by commands.  Equivalent to the special-function
target \fB\&.IGNORE:\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-j\fR \fImaxjobs\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specify the maximum number of jobs that each instance of \fBmake\fR will invoke.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
When a nonzero error status is returned by a rule, or when \fBmake\fR cannot
find a rule, abandons work on the current target, but continues with other
dependency branches that do not depend on it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-K\fR \fIstatefile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Uses the state file \fIstatefile\fR. A \fB\(mi\fR as the \fIstatefile\fR
argument denotes the standard input. The contents of \fIstatefile\fR, when
present, override the standard set of implicit rules and predefined macros.
When more than one \fB-K\fR \fIstatefile\fR argument pair appears, \fBmake\fR
uses the concatenation of those files, in order of appearance. (See also
\fB\&.KEEP_STATE\fR  and \fB\&.KEEP_STATE_FILE\fR in the Special-Function
Targets section).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-m\fR \fI{serial | parallel}\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specify whether \fBmake\fR should execute jobs serially or in parallel.  The
default for \fBmake\fR is to run serially unless \fB-j\fR is specified.  The
default is for \fBdmake\fR is to run in parallel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
No execution mode. Prints commands, but does not execute them. Even lines
beginning with an \fB@\fR are printed. However, if a command line contains a
reference to the \fB$(MAKE)\fR macro, that line is always executed (see the
discussion of \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR in Reading Makefiles and the Environment). When
in POSIX mode, lines beginning with a "\fB+\fR" are executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Prints out the complete set of macro definitions and target descriptions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Merely reports dependencies, rather than building them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Question mode. \fBmake\fR returns a zero or nonzero status code depending on
whether or not the target file is up to date. When in POSIX mode, lines
beginning with a "\fB+\fR" are executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Does not read in the default makefile \fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Silent mode. Does not print command lines before executing them. Equivalent to
the special-function target \fB\&.SILENT:\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Undoes the effect of the \fB-k\fR option. Stops processing when a non-zero exit
status is returned by a command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Touches the target files (bringing them up to date) rather than performing
their rules. \fBWarning:\fR This can be \fBdangerous\fR when files are
maintained by more than one person. When the \fB\&.KEEP_STATE:\fR target
appears in the makefile, this option updates the state file just as if the
rules had been performed. When in POSIX mode, lines beginning with a "\fB+\fR"
are executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Puts \fBmake\fR into SysV mode. Refer to \fBsysV-make\fR(1) for respective
details.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItarget\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Target names, as defined in Usage.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImacro\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Macro definition. This definition overrides any regular definition for the
specified macro within the makefile itself, or in the environment. However,
this definition can still be overridden by conditional macro assignments.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.LP
The usage of \fBmake\fR is described below:
.SS "Reading Makefiles and the Environment"
.LP
When \fBmake\fR first starts, it reads the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR environment variable
to obtain any of the following options specified present in its value:
\fB-d\fR, \fB-D\fR, \fB-e\fR, \fB-i\fR, \fB-k\fR, \fB-n\fR, \fB-p\fR, \fB-q\fR,
\fB-r\fR, \fB-s\fR, \fB-S\fR, or \fB-t\fR. Due to the implementation of POSIX.2
(see \fBPOSIX.2\fR(5), the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR values contains a leading \fB\(mi\fR
character. The \fBmake\fR utility then reads the command line for additional
options, which also take effect.
.sp
.LP
Next, \fBmake\fR reads in a default makefile that typically contains predefined
macro definitions, target entries for implicit rules, and additional rules,
such as the rule for retrieving \fBSCCS\fR files. If present, \fBmake\fR uses
the file \fBmake.rules\fR in the current directory; otherwise it reads the file
\fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR, which contains the standard definitions
and rules. Use the directive:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBinclude /usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
in your local \fBmake.rules\fR file to include them.
.sp
.LP
Next, \fBmake\fR imports variables from the environment (unless the \fB-e\fR
option is in effect), and treats them as defined macros. Because \fBmake\fR
uses the most recent definition it encounters, a macro definition in the
makefile normally overrides an environment variable of the same name. When
\fB-e\fR is in effect, however, environment variables are read in \fBafter\fR
all makefiles have been read. In that case, the environment variables take
precedence over definitions in the makefile.
.sp
.LP
Next, \fBmake\fR reads any makefiles you specify with \fB-f\fR, or one of
\fBmakefile\fR or \fBMakefile\fR as described above and then the state file, in
the local directory if it exists. If the makefile contains a
\fB\&.KEEP_STATE_FILE\fR target, then it reads the state file that follows the
target. Refer to special target \fB\&.KEEP_STATE_FILE\fR for details.
.sp
.LP
Next (after reading the environment if \fB-e\fR is in effect), \fBmake\fR reads
in any macro definitions supplied as command line arguments. These override
macro definitions in the makefile and the environment both, but only for the
\fBmake\fR command itself.
.sp
.LP
\fBmake\fR exports environment variables, using the most recently defined
value. Macro definitions supplied on the command line are not normally
exported, unless the macro is also an environment variable.
.sp
.LP
\fBmake\fR does not export macros defined in the makefile. If an environment
variable is set, and a macro with the same name is defined on the command line,
\fBmake\fR exports its value as defined on the command line. Unless \fB-e\fR is
in effect, macro definitions within the makefile take precedence over those
imported from the environment.
.sp
.LP
The macros \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR, \fBMAKE\fR, \fBSHELL\fR, \fBHOST_ARCH\fR,
\fBHOST_MACH\fR, and \fBTARGET_MACH\fR are special cases. See Special-Purpose
Macros below for details.
.SS "Makefile Target Entries"
.LP
A target entry has the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
       \fItarget\fR [\fB:\fR|\fB::\fR] [\fIdependency\fR] ... [\fB;\fR \fBcommand\fR] ...
                      [\fBcommand\fR]
                      ...
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The first line contains the name of a target, or a space-separated list of
target names, terminated with a colon or double colon. If a list of targets is
given, this is equivalent to having a separate entry of the same form for each
target. The colon(s) can be followed by a \fIdependency\fR, or a dependency
list. \fBmake\fR checks this list before building the target. The dependency
list can be terminated with a semicolon (\fB;\fR), which in turn can be
followed by a single Bourne shell command. Subsequent lines in the target entry
begin with a \fBTAB\fR and contain Bourne shell commands. These commands
comprise the rule for building the target.
.sp
.LP
Shell commands can be continued across input lines by escaping the
\fBNEWLINE\fR with a backslash (\fB\e\fR). The continuing line must also start
with a \fBTAB\fR.
.sp
.LP
To rebuild a target, \fBmake\fR expands macros, strips off initial \fBTAB\fR
characters and either executes the command directly (if it contains no shell
metacharacters), or passes each command line to a Bourne shell for execution.
.sp
.LP
The first \fInon-empty\fR line that does not begin with a \fBTAB\fR or \fB#\fR
begins another target or macro definition.
.SS "Special Characters"
.LP
Special characters are defined below.
.SS "\fIGlobal\fR"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB#\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Start a comment. The comment ends at the next \fBNEWLINE\fR. If the \fB#\fR
follows the \fBTAB\fR in a command line, that line is passed to the shell
(which also treats \fB#\fR as the start of a comment).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinclude\fR \fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
If the word \fBinclude\fR appears as the first seven letters of a line and is
followed by a \fBSPACE\fR or \fBTAB\fR, the string that follows is taken as a
filename to interpolate at that line. \fBinclude\fR files can be nested to a
depth of no more than 38 nested makefiles. If \fIfilename\fR is a macro
reference, it is expanded.
.RE

.SS "\fITargets and Dependencies\fR"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Target list terminator. Words following the colon are added to the dependency
list for the target or targets. If a target is named in more than one
colon-terminated target entry, the dependencies for all its entries are added
to form that target's complete dependency list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB::\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Target terminator for alternate dependencies. When used in place of a \fB:\fR
the double-colon allows a target to be checked and updated with respect to
alternate dependency lists. When the target is out-of-date with respect to
dependencies listed in the first alternate, it is built according to the rule
for that entry. When out-of-date with respect to dependencies in another
alternate, it is built according the rule in that other entry. Implicit rules
do not apply to double-colon targets; you must supply a rule for each entry. If
no dependencies are specified, the rule is always performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItarget\fR [\fB+\fR \fItarget\fR.\|.\|.\|] \fB:\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Target group. The rule in the target entry builds all the indicated targets as
a group. It is normally performed only once per \fBmake\fR run, but is checked
for command dependencies every time a target in the group is encountered in the
dependency scan.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Pattern matching wild card metacharacter.  Like the \fB*\fR shell wild card,
\fB%\fR matches any string of zero or more characters in a target name or
dependency, in the target portion of a conditional macro definition, or within
a pattern replacement macro reference. Notice that only one \fB%\fR can appear
in a target, dependency-name, or pattern-replacement macro reference.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&./\fR\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBmake\fR ignores the leading \fB\&./\fR characters from targets with names
given as pathnames relative to "dot," the working directory.
.RE

.SS "\fIMacros\fR"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Macro definition. The word to the left of this character is the macro name;
words to the right comprise its value. Leading and trailing white space
characters are stripped from the value. A word break following the \fB=\fR is
implied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Macro reference. The following character, or the parenthesized or bracketed
string, is interpreted as a macro reference: \fBmake\fR expands the reference
(including the \fB$\fR) by replacing it with the macro's value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB( )\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB{ }\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Macro-reference name delimiters. A parenthesized or bracketed word appended to
a \fB$\fR is taken as the name of the macro being referred to. Without the
delimiters, \fBmake\fR recognizes only the first character as the macro name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$$\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
A reference to the dollar-sign macro, the value of which is the character
\fB$\fR. Used to pass variable expressions beginning with \fB$\fR to the shell,
to refer to environment variables which are expanded by the shell, or to delay
processing of dynamic macros within the dependency list of a target, until that
target is actually processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\e$\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Escaped dollar-sign character.  Interpreted as a literal dollar sign within a
rule.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
When used in place of \fB=\fR, appends a string to a macro definition (must be
surrounded by white space, unlike \fB=\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Conditional macro assignment. When preceded by a list of targets with explicit
target entries, the macro definition that follows takes effect when processing
only those targets, and their dependencies.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:sh\fR \fB=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Define the value of a macro to be the output of a command (see Command
Substitutions below).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:sh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
In a macro reference, execute the command stored in the macro, and replace the
reference with the output of that command (see \fBCommand Substitutions\fR
below).
.RE

.SS "\fIRules\fR"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
\fBmake\fR always executes the commands preceded by a "\fB+\fR", even when
\fB-n\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
\fBmake\fR ignores any nonzero error code returned by a command line for which
the first non-\fBTAB\fR character is a \fB\(mi\fR\&. This character is not
passed to the shell as part of the command line. \fBmake\fR normally terminates
when a command returns nonzero status, unless the \fB-i\fR or \fB-k\fR options,
or the \fB\&.IGNORE:\fR special-function target is in effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB@\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
If the first non-\fBTAB\fR character is a \fB@\fR, \fBmake\fR does not print
the command line before executing it. This character is not passed to the
shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Escape command-dependency checking. Command lines starting with this character
are not subject to command dependency checking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Force command-dependency checking. Command-dependency checking is applied to
command lines for which it would otherwise be suppressed. This checking is
normally suppressed for lines that contain references to the \fB?\fR dynamic
macro (for example, \fB$?\fR).
.sp
When any combination of \fB+\fR, \fB\(mi\fR, \fB@\fR, \fB?\fR, or \fB!\fR
appear as the first characters after the \fBTAB\fR, all that are present apply.
None are passed to the shell.
.RE

.SS "Special-Function Targets"
.LP
When incorporated in a makefile, the following target names perform
special-functions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.DEFAULT:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
If it has an entry in the makefile, the rule for this target is used to process
a target when there is no other entry for it, no rule for building it, and no
\fBSCCS\fR history file from which to retrieve a current version. \fBmake\fR
ignores any dependencies for this target.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.DONE:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
If defined in the makefile, \fBmake\fR processes this target and its
dependencies after all other targets are built.  This target is also performed
when \fBmake\fR halts with an error, unless the \fB\&.FAILED\fR target is
defined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.FAILED:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
This target, along with its dependencies, is performed instead of \fB\&.DONE\fR
when defined in the makefile and \fBmake\fR halts with an error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.GET_POSIX:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
This target contains the rule for retrieving the current version of an
\fBSCCS\fR file from its history file in the current working directory.
\fBmake\fR uses this rule when it is running in POSIX mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.IGNORE:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Ignore errors.  When this target appears in the makefile, \fBmake\fR ignores
non-zero error codes returned from commands. When used in POSIX mode,
\fB\&.IGNORE\fR could be followed by target names only, for which the errors is
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.INIT:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
If defined in the makefile, this target and its dependencies are built before
any other targets are processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.KEEP_STATE:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
If this target is in effect, \fBmake\fR updates the state file,
\fB\&.make.state\fR, in the current directory.  This target also activates
command dependencies, and hidden dependency checks. If either the
\fB\&.KEEP_STATE:\fR target appears in the makefile, or the environment
variable \fBKEEP_STATE\fR is set (\fBsetenv KEEP_STATE\fR), \fBmake\fR rebuilds
everything in order to collect dependency information, even if all the targets
were up to date due to previous \fBmake\fR runs. See also the Environment
Variables section.  This target has no effect if used in POSIX mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.KEEP_STATE_FILE:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
This target has no effect if used in POSIX mode. This target implies
\fB\&.KEEP_STATE\fR. If the target is followed by a filename, \fBmake\fR uses
it as the state file. If the target is followed by a directory name, \fBmake\fR
looks for a \fB\&.make.state\fR file in that directory. If the target is not
followed by any name, \fBmake\fR looks for \fB\&.make.state\fR file in the
current working directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.MAKE_VERSION:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
A target-entry of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.MAKE_VERSION:  VERSION\(mi\fInumber\fR
.fi
.in -2

enables version checking. If the version of \fBmake\fR differs from the version
indicated by a string like \fBVERSION-1.0\fR, \fBmake\fR issues a warning
message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.NO_PARALLEL:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Dependencies of this target will be executed serially.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.PARALLEL:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Dependencies of this target will be executed in parallel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.POSIX:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
This target enables POSIX mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.PRECIOUS:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
List of files not to delete. \fBmake\fR does not remove any of the files listed
as dependencies for this target when interrupted. \fBmake\fR normally removes
the current target when it receives an interrupt. When used in POSIX mode, if
the target is not followed by a list of files, all the file are assumed
precious.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.SCCS_GET:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
This target contains the rule for retrieving the current version of an
\fBSCCS\fR file from its history file. To suppress automatic retrieval, add an
entry for this target with an empty rule to your makefile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.SCCS_GET_POSIX:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
This target contains the rule for retrieving the current version of an
\fBSCCS\fR file from its history file. \fBmake\fR uses this rule when it is
running in POSIX mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.SILENT:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Run silently. When this target appears in the makefile, \fBmake\fR does not
echo commands before executing them. When used in POSIX mode, it could be
followed by target names, and only those are executed silently.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.SUFFIXES:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The suffixes list for selecting implicit rules (see The Suffixes List).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.WAIT:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
In a dependency list, wait until any dependency preceding this has completed
before moving on to any dependency following it.
.RE

.SS "\fIClearing Special Targets\fR"
.LP
In this version of \fBmake\fR, you can clear the definition of the following
special targets by supplying entries for them with no dependencies and no rule:
.sp
.LP
\fB\&.DEFAULT, .SCCS_GET,  and .SUFFIXES\fR
.SS "Command Dependencies"
.LP
When the \fB\&.KEEP_STATE:\fR target is effective, \fBmake\fR checks the
command for building a target against the state file. If the command has
changed since the last \fBmake\fR run, \fBmake\fR rebuilds the target.
.SS "Hidden Dependencies"
.LP
When the \fB\&.KEEP_STATE:\fR target is effective, \fBmake\fR reads reports
from \fBcpp\fR(1) and other compilation processors for any "hidden" files, such
as \fB#include\fR files. If the target is out of date with respect to any of
these files, \fBmake\fR rebuilds it.
.SS "Macros"
.LP
Entries of the form
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fImacro\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
define macros. \fImacro\fR is the name of the macro, and \fIvalue\fR, which
consists of all characters up to a comment character or unescaped
\fBNEWLINE\fR, is the value. \fBmake\fR strips both leading and trailing white
space in accepting the value.
.sp
.LP
Subsequent references to the macro, of the forms: \fB$(\fR\fIname\fR\fB)\fR or
\fB${\fR\fIname\fR\fB}\fR are replaced by \fIvalue\fR. The parentheses or
brackets can be omitted in a reference to a macro with a single-character name.
.sp
.LP
Macro references can contain references to other macros, in which case nested
references are expanded first.
.SS "\fISuffix Replacement Macro References\fR"
.LP
Substitutions within macros can be made as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     \fB$(\fR\fIname\fR\fB:\fR\fIstring1\fR\fB=\fR\fIstring2\fR\fB)\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fIstring1\fR is either a suffix, or a word to be replaced in the macro
definition, and \fIstring2\fR is the replacement suffix or word. Words in a
macro value are separated by \fBSPACE\fR, \fBTAB\fR, and escaped \fBNEWLINE\fR
characters.
.SS "\fIPattern Replacement Macro References\fR"
.LP
Pattern matching replacements can also be applied to macros, with a reference
of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     \fB$(\fR\fIname\fR\fB:\fR \fIop\fR\fB%\fR\fIos\fR\fB=\fR \fInp\fR\fB%\fR\fIns\fR\fB)\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fIop\fR is the existing (old) prefix and \fIos\fR is the existing (old)
suffix, \fInp\fR and \fIns\fR are the new prefix and new suffix, respectively,
and the pattern matched by \fB%\fR (a string of zero or more characters), is
carried forward from the value being replaced. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBPROGRAM=fabricate
DEBUG= $(PROGRAM:%=tmp/%\(mig)\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
sets the value of \fBDEBUG\fR to \fBtmp/fabricate\(mig\fR.
.sp
.LP
Notice that pattern replacement macro references cannot be used in the
dependency list of a pattern matching rule; the \fB%\fR characters are not
evaluated independently. Also, any number of \fB%\fR metacharacters can appear
after the equal-sign.
.SS "\fIAppending to a Macro\fR"
.LP
Words can be appended to macro values as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     \fImacro\fR \fB+=\fR \fIword .\|.\|.\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Special-Purpose Macros"
.LP
When the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR variable is present in the environment, \fBmake\fR
takes options from it, in combination with options entered on the command line.
\fBmake\fR retains this combined value as the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR macro, and
exports it automatically to each command or shell it invokes.
.sp
.LP
Notice that flags passed by way of \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR are only displayed when the
\fB-d\fR, or \fB-dd\fR options are in effect.
.sp
.LP
The \fBMAKE\fR macro is another special case. It has the value \fBmake\fR by
default, and temporarily overrides the \fB-n\fR option for any line in which it
is referred to. This allows nested invocations of \fBmake\fR written as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     \fB$(MAKE)\fR .\|.\|.
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
to run recursively, with the \fB-n\fR flag in effect for all commands but
\fBmake\fR. This lets you use \fBmake\fR \fB-n\fR to test an entire hierarchy
of makefiles.
.sp
.LP
For compatibility with the 4.2 \fBBSD\fR \fBmake\fR, the \fBMFLAGS\fR macro is
set from the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR variable by prepending a \fB-\fR\&. \fBMFLAGS\fR
is not exported automatically.
.sp
.LP
The \fBSHELL\fR macro, when set to a single-word value such as
\fB/usr/bin/csh\fR, indicates the name of an alternate shell to use. The
default is \fB/bin/sh\fR. Notice that \fBmake\fR executes commands that contain
no shell metacharacters itself. Built-in commands, such as \fBdirs\fR in the C
shell, are not recognized unless the command line includes a metacharacter (for
instance, a semicolon). This macro is neither imported from, nor exported to
the environment, regardless of \fB-e\fR. To be sure it is set properly, you
must define this macro within every makefile that requires it.
.sp
.LP
The syntax of the \fBVPATH\fR macro is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     \fBVPATH\fR = [ \fIpathname\fR [ : \fIpathname\fR ] ... ]
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBVPATH\fR specifies a list of directories to search for the files, which are
targets or dependencies, when \fBmake\fR is executed.  \fBVPATH\fR is also used
in order to search for the \fBinclude\fR files mentioned in the particular
makefile.
.sp
.LP
When processing a target or a dependency or an include directive, \fBmake\fR
checks the existence of the file with the same name in the current directory.
If the file is found to be missing, \fBmake\fR searches for this file in the
list of directories presented in \fBVPATH\fR (like the \fBPATH\fR variable in
the shell). Unlike the \fBPATH\fR variable, \fBVPATH\fR is used in order to
search for the files with relative pathnames. When \fBmake\fR attempts to apply
implicit rules to the target, it also searches for the dependency files using
\fBVPATH\fR.
.sp
.LP
When the file is found using \fBVPATH\fR, internal macros \fB$@\fR, \fB@<\fR,
\fB$?\fR, \fB$*\fR, and their alternative forms (with \fBD\fR or \fBF\fR
appended) are set in accordance with the name derived from \fBVPATH\fR. For
instance, if the target \fBsubdir/foo.o\fR is found in the directory
\fB/aaa/bbb\fR using \fBVPATH\fR, then the value of the internal macro \fB$@\fR
for this target is \fB/aaa/bbb/subdir/foo.o\fR.
.sp
.LP
If a target or a dependency file is found using \fBVPATH\fR, then any
occurrences of the word that is the same as the target name in the subsequent
rules are replaced with the actual name of the target derived from \fBVPATH\fR.
.sp
.LP
For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBVPATH=./subdir
file.o : file.c
         cc -c file.c -o file.o\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If \fBfile.c\fR is found in \fB\&./subdir\fR, then the command
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBcc -c ./subdir/file.c -o file.o\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
are executed.
.sp
.LP
The following macros are provided for use with cross-compilation:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHOST_ARCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The processor type of the host system. By default, this is the output of the
\fBmach\fR(1) command, prepended with \fB-\fR\&. Under normal circumstances,
this value should never be altered by the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHOST_MACH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The machine architecture of the host system. By default, this is the output of
the \fBarch\fR(1) command, prepended with \fB\(mi\fR\&. Under normal
circumstances, this value should never be altered by the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTARGET_ARCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The processor type of the target system. By default, the output of \fBmach\fR,
prepended with \fB\(mi\fR\&.
.RE

.SS "Dynamic Macros"
.LP
There are several dynamically maintained macros that are useful as
abbreviations within rules. They are shown here as references; if you were to
define them, \fBmake\fR would simply override the definition.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The basename of the current target, derived as if selected for use with an
implicit rule.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$<\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The name of a dependency file, derived as if selected for use with an implicit
rule.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$@\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The name of the current target. This is the only dynamic macro whose value is
strictly determined when used in a dependency list. (In which case it takes the
form \fB$$@\fR.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The list of dependencies that are newer than the target. Command-dependency
checking is automatically suppressed for lines that contain this macro, just as
if the command had been prefixed with a \fB?\fR. See the description of
\fB?\fR, under \fBSpecial Character\fR Rules above. You can force this check
with the \fB!\fR command-line prefix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The name of the library member being processed. (See Library Maintenance
below.)
.RE

.sp
.LP
To refer to the \fB$@\fR dynamic macro within a dependency list, precede the
reference with an additional \fB$\fR character (as in, \fB$$@\fR). Because
\fBmake\fR assigns \fB$<\fR and \fB$*\fR as it would for implicit rules
(according to the suffixes list and the directory contents), they can be
unreliable when used within explicit target entries.
.sp
.LP
These macros can be modified to apply either to the filename part, or the
directory part of the strings they stand for, by adding an upper case \fBF\fR
or \fBD\fR, respectively (and enclosing the resulting name in parentheses or
braces). Thus, \fB$(@D)\fR refers to the directory part of the string \fB$@\fR;
if there is no directory part, \fB\&.\fR is assigned. \fB$(@F)\fR refers to the
filename part.
.SS "Conditional Macro Definitions"
.LP
A macro definition of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fItarget-list\fR \fB:=\fR \fImacro\fR \fB=\fR \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
indicates that when processing any of the targets listed \fIand their
dependencies\fR, \fImacro\fR is to be set to the \fIvalue\fR supplied. Notice
that if a conditional macro is referred to in a dependency list, the \fB$\fR
must be delayed (use \fB$$\fR instead). Also, \fItarget-list\fR can contain a
\fB%\fR pattern, in which case the macro is conditionally defined for all
targets encountered that match the pattern. A pattern replacement reference can
be used within the \fIvalue\fR.
.sp
.LP
You can temporarily append to a macros value with a conditional definition of
the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fItarget-list\fR \fB:=\fR \fImacro\fR \fB+=\fR \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Predefined Macros"
.LP
\fBmake\fR supplies the macros shown in the table that follows for compilers
and their options, host architectures, and other commands. Unless these macros
are read in as environment variables, their values are not exported by
\fBmake\fR. If you run \fBmake\fR with any of these set in the environment, it
is a good idea to add commentary to the makefile to indicate what value each is
expected to take. If \fB-r\fR is in effect, \fBmake\fR does not read the
default makefile (\fB\&./make.rules\fR or \fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR)
in which these macro definitions are supplied.
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1i) | cw(1.17i) | cw(3.33i)
cw(1i) | cw(1.17i) | cw(3.33i) .
\fITable of Predefined Macros\fR
_
\fIUse\fR	\fIMacro\fR	\fIDefault Value\fR
_
Library	\fBAR\fR	\fBar\fR
Archives	\fBARFLAGS\fR	\fBrv\fR
_

Assembler	\fBAS\fR	\fBas\fR
Commands	\fBASFLAGS\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.s\fR	\fB$(AS) $(ASFLAGS)\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.S\fR	\fB$(CC) $(ASFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
_

C	\fBCC\fR	\fBcc\fR
Compiler	\fBCFLAGS\fR
Commands	\fBCPPFLAGS\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.c\fR	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.c\fR	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
_

C++	\fBCCC\fR	\fBCC\fR
Compiler	\fBCCFLAGS\fR	\fBCFLAGS\fR
Commands	\fBCPPFLAGS\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.cc\fR	\fB$(CCC) $(CCFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.cc\fR	\fB$(CCC) $(CCFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.C\fR	\fB$(CCC) $(CCFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.C\fR	\fB$(CCC) $(CCFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
_

FORTRAN 77	\fBFC\fR	\fBf77\fR
Compiler	\fBFFLAGS\fR
Commands	\fBCOMPILE.f\fR	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.f\fR	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.F\fR	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.F\fR	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
_

FORTRAN 90	\fBFC\fR	\fBf90\fR
Compiler	\fBF90FLAGS\fR
Commands	\fBCOMPILE.f90\fR	\fB$(F90C) $(F90FLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.f90\fR	\fB$(F90C) $(F90FLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.ftn\fR	\fB$(F90C) $(F90FLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.ftn\fR	T{
\fB$(F90C) $(F90FLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
T}
_

Link Editor	\fBLD\fR	\fBld\fR
Command	\fBLDFLAGS\fR
_

lex	\fBLEX\fR	\fBlex\fR
Command	\fBLFLAGS\fR
	\fBLEX.l\fR	\fB$(LEX) $(LFLAGS)\fR \fB-t\fR
_

lint	\fBLINT\fR	\fBlint\fR
Command	\fBLINTFLAGS\fR
	\fBLINT.c\fR	\fB$(LINT) $(LINTFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR
_

Modula 2	\fBM2C\fR	\fBm2c\fR
Commands	\fBM2FLAGS\fR
	\fBMODFLAGS\fR
	\fBDEFFLAGS\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.def\fR	\fB$(M2C) $(M2FLAGS) $(DEFFLAGS)\fR
	\fBCOMPILE.mod\fR	\fB$(M2C) $(M2FLAGS) $(MODFLAGS)\fR
_

Pascal	\fBPC\fR	\fBpc\fR
Compiler	\fBPFLAGS\fR
Commands	\fBCOMPILE.p\fR	\fB$(PC) $(PFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
	\fBLINK.p\fR	\fB$(PC) $(PFLAGS) $(CPPFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
_

Ratfor	\fBRFLAGS\fR
Compilation	\fBCOMPILE.r\fR	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(RFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR
Commands	\fBLINK.r\fR	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(RFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR
_

rm Command	\fBRM\fR	\fBrm\fR \fB-f\fR
_

sccs	\fBSCCSFLAGS\fR
Command	\fBSCCSGETFLAGS\fR	\fB-s\fR
_

yacc	\fBYACC\fR	\fByacc\fR
Command	\fBYFLAGS\fR
	\fBYACC.y\fR	\fB$(YACC) $(YFLAGS)\fR
_

Suffixes List	\fBSUFFIXES\fR	T{
\fB\&.o .c .c~ .cc .cc~ .y .y~ .l .l~ .s .s~ .sh .sh~ .S .S~ .ln .h .h~ .f .f~ .F .F~  .mod .mod~ .sym .def .def~ .p .p~ .r .r~ .cps .cps~ .C .C~ .Y .Y~ .L .L .f90 .f90~ .ftn .ftn~\fR
T}
.TE

.SS "Implicit Rules"
.LP
When a target has no entry in the makefile, \fBmake\fR attempts to determine
its class (if any) and apply the rule for that class. An implicit rule
describes how to build any target of a given class, from an associated
dependency file. The class of a target can be determined either by a pattern,
or by a suffix; the corresponding dependency file (with the same basename) from
which such a target might be built. In addition to a predefined set of implicit
rules, \fBmake\fR allows you to define your own, either by pattern, or by
suffix.
.SS "\fIPattern Matching Rules\fR"
.LP
A target entry of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fItp\fR\fB%\fR\fIts\fR:\|\fIdp\fR\fB%\fR\fIds\fR
     \fIrule\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
is a pattern matching rule, in which \fItp\fR is a target prefix, \fIts\fR is a
target suffix, \fIdp\fR is a dependency prefix, and \fIds\fR is a dependency
suffix (any of which can be null). The \fB%\fR stands for a basename of zero or
more characters that is matched in the target, and is used to construct the
name of a dependency. When \fBmake\fR encounters a match in its search for an
implicit rule, it uses the rule in that target entry to build the target from
the dependency file. Pattern-matching implicit rules typically make use of the
\fB$@\fR and \fB$<\fR dynamic macros as placeholders for the target and
dependency names. Other, regular dependencies can occur in the dependency list;
however, none of the regular dependencies can contain \fB%\fR. An entry of the
form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fItp\fR%\fIts\fR:\|[\fIdependency .\|.\|.\fR\|] \fIdp\fR%\fIds\fR\|[\fIdependency .\|.\|.\fR\|]
     \fIrule\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
is a valid pattern matching rule.
.SS "\fISuffix Rules\fR"
.LP
When no pattern matching rule applies, \fBmake\fR checks the target name to see
if it ends with a suffix in the known suffixes list. If so, \fBmake\fR checks
for any suffix rules, as well as a dependency file with same root and another
recognized suffix, from which to build it.
.sp
.LP
The target entry for a suffix rule takes the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIDsTs\fR: \fIrule\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fITs\fR is the suffix of the target, \fIDs\fR is the suffix of the
dependency file, and \fIrule\fR is the rule for building a target in the class.
Both \fIDs\fR and \fITs\fR must appear in the suffixes list. (A suffix need not
begin with a \fB\&.\fR to be recognized.)
.sp
.LP
A suffix rule with only one suffix describes how to build a target having a
null (or no) suffix from a dependency file with the indicated suffix. For
instance, the \fB\&.c\fR rule could be used to build an executable program
named \fBfile\fR from a C source file named \fBfile.c\fR. If a target with a
null suffix has an explicit dependency, \fBmake\fR omits the search for a
suffix rule.
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for Assembly Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.s.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.s)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $<\fR
_

\fB\&.s.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.s)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.s~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.s\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.s)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.s\fR
_

\fB\&.S.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.S)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $<\fR
_

\fB\&.S.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.S)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.S~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.S\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.S)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.S\fR
_

\fB\&.S~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.S\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.S)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.S\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for C Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.c\fR	\fB$(LINK.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.c.ln\fR	\fB$(LINT.c) $(OUTPUT_OPTION)\fR \fB-i\fR \fB$<\fR
_

\fB\&.c.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.c) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.c.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.c~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.c~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR \fB$*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.c~.ln\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LINT.c) $(OUTPUT_OPTION)\fR \fB-c\fR \fB$*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.c~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.c\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for C++ Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.cc\fR	\fB$(LINK.cc)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.cc.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.cc) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.cc.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.cc)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.cc~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.cc\fR
	\fB$(LINK.cc)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.cc $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.cc.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.cc) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.cc~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.cc\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.cc) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $*.cc\fR
_

\fB\&.cc.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.cc)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.cc~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.cc\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.cc)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.cc\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.C\fR	\fB$(LINK.C)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.C~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.C\fR
	\fB$(LINK.C)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.C $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.C.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.C) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.C~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.C\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.C) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $*.C\fR
_

\fB\&.C.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.C)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.C~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.C\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.C)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.C\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for FORTRAN 77 Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.f\fR	\fB$(LINK.f)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.f.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.f) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.f.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.f)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.f\fR	\fB$(LINK.f)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.f~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.f\fR
	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.f\fR
_

\fB\&.f~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.f\fR
	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR \fB$*.f\fR
_

\fB\&.f~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.f\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.f)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.f\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.F\fR	\fB$(LINK.F)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.F.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.F) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.F.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.F)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.F~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.F\fR
	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS) $(LDFLAGS)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.F\fR
_

\fB\&.F~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.F\fR
	\fB$(FC) $(FFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR \fB$*.F\fR
_

\fB\&.F~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.F\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.F)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.F\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for FORTRAN 90 Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.f90\fR	\fB$(LINK.f90)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.f90~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.f90\fR
	\fB$(LINK.f90)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.f90 $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.f90.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.f90) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.f90~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.f90\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.f90) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $*.f90\fR
_

\fB\&.f90.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.f90)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.f90~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.f90\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.f90)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.f90\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.ftn\fR	\fB$(LINK.ftn)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.ftn~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.ftn\fR
	\fB$(LINK.ftn)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.ftn $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.ftn.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.ftn) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.ftn~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.ftn\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.ftn) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $*.ftn\fR
_

\fB\&.ftn.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.ftn)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.ftn~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.ftn\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.ftn)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.ftn\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for lex Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.l\fR	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LEX.l) $< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LINK.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.c $(LDLIBS)\fR
	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.l.c\fR	\fB$(RM) $@\fR
	\fB$(LEX.l) $< > $@\fR
_

\fB\&.l.ln\fR	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LEX.l) $< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LINT.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@\fR \fB-i\fR \fB$*.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.l.o\fR	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LEX.l) $< > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.l~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.l\fR
	\fB$(LEX) $(LFLAGS) $*.l\fR
	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR \fBlex.yy.c\fR
	\fBrm\fR \fB-f\fR \fBlex.yy.c\fR
	\fBmv lex.yy.c $@\fR
_

\fB\&.l~.c\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.l\fR
	\fB$(LEX) $(LFLAGS) $*.l\fR
	\fBmv lex.yy.c $@\fR
_

\fB\&.l~.ln\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.l\fR
	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LEX.l) $*.l > $*.c\fR
	\fB$(LINT.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@\fR \fB-i\fR \fB$*.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) $*.c\fR
_

\fB\&.l~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.l\fR
	\fB$(LEX) $(LFLAGS) $*.l\fR
	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR \fBlex.yy.c\fR
	\fBrm\fR \fB-f\fR \fBlex.yy.c\fR
	\fBmv lex.yy.c $@\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)  .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for Modula 2 Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.mod\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.mod)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@\fR \fB-e\fR \fB$@ $<\fR
_

\fB\&.mod.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.mod)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $<\fR
_

\fB\&.def.sym\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.def)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $<\fR
_

\fB\&.def~.sym\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.def\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.def)\fR \fB-o\fR\fB$@ $*.def\fR
_

\fB\&.mod~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.mod\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.mod)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@\fR \fB-e\fR \fB$@ $*.mod\fR
_

\fB\&.mod~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.mod\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.mod)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.mod\fR
_

\fB\&.mod~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.mod\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.mod)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.mod\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for NeWS Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.cps.h\fR	\fBcps $*.cps\fR
_
\fB\&.cps~.h\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.cps\fR
	\fB$(CPS) $(CPSFLAGS) $*.cps\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for Pascal Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.p\fR	\fB$(LINK.p)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.p.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.p) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.p~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.p\fR
	\fB$(LINK.p)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.p $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.p~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.p\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.p) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $*.p\fR
_

\fB\&.p~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.p\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.p)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.p\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for Ratfor Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.r\fR	\fB$(LINK.r)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $< $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.r.o\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.r) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $<\fR
_

\fB\&.r.a\fR	\fB$(COMPILE.r)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $<\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
_

\fB\&.r~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.r\fR
	\fB$(LINK.r)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ $*.r $(LDLIBS)\fR
_

\fB\&.r~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.r\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.r) $(OUTPUT_OPTION) $*.r\fR
_

\fB\&.r~.a\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.r\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.r)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$% $*.r\fR
	\fB$(AR) $(ARFLAGS) $@ $%\fR
	\fB$(RM) $%\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for SCCS Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.SCCS_GET\fR	T{
\fBsccs $(SCCSFLAGS) get $(SCCSGETFLAGS) $@\fR \fB-G\fR\fB$@\fR
T}

_

\fB\&.SCCS_GET_POSIX\fR	\fBsccs $(SCCSFLAGS) get $(SCCSGETFLAGS) $@\fR
_

\fB\&.GET_POSIX\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS) s.$@\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for Shell Scripts\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.sh\fR	\fBcat $< >$@\fR
	\fBchmod +x $@\fR
_

\fB\&.sh~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.sh\fR
	\fBcp $*.sh $@\fR
	\fBchmod a+x $@\fR
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i)
cw(1.57i) |cw(3.93i) .
T{
\fITable of Standard Implicit (Suffix) Rules for yacc Files\fR
T}
_
\fIImplicit Rule Name\fR	\fICommand Line\fR
_
\fB\&.y\fR	\fB$(YACC.y) $<\fR
	\fB$(LINK.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ y.tab.c $(LDLIBS)\fR
	\fB$(RM) y.tab.c\fR
_

\fB\&.y.c\fR	\fB$(YACC.y) $<\fR
	\fBmv y.tab.c $@\fR
_

\fB\&.y.ln\fR	\fB$(YACC.y) $<\fR
	\fB$(LINT.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@\fR \fB-i\fR \fBy.tab.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) y.tab.c\fR
_

\fB\&.y.o\fR	\fB$(YACC.y) $<\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ y.tab.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) y.tab.c\fR
_

\fB\&.y~\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.y\fR
	\fB$(YACC) $(YFLAGS) $*.y\fR
	\fB$(COMPILE.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@ y.tab.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) y.tab.c\fR
_

\fB\&.y~.c\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.y\fR
	\fB$(YACC) $(YFLAGS) $*.y\fR
	\fBmv y.tab.c $@\fR
_

\fB\&.y~.ln\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.y\fR
	\fB$(YACC.y) $*.y\fR
	\fB$(LINT.c)\fR \fB-o\fR \fB$@\fR \fB-i\fR \fBy.tab.c\fR
	\fB$(RM) y.tab.c\fR
_

\fB\&.y~.o\fR	\fB$(GET) $(GFLAGS)\fR \fB-p\fR \fB$< > $*.y\fR
	\fB$(YACC) $(YFLAGS) $*.y\fR
	\fB$(CC) $(CFLAGS)\fR \fB-c\fR \fBy.tab.c\fR
	\fBrm\fR \fB-f\fR \fBy.tab.c\fR
	\fBmv y.tab.o $@\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
\fBmake\fR reads in the standard set of implicit rules from the file
\fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR, unless \fB-r\fR is in effect, or there is
a \fBmake.rules\fR file in the local directory that does not \fBinclude\fR that
file.
.SS "The Suffixes List"
.LP
The suffixes list is given as the list of dependencies for the
\fB\&.SUFFIXES:\fR special-function target. The default list is contained in
the \fBSUFFIXES\fR macro (See \fITable of Predefined Macros\fR for the standard
list of suffixes). You can define additional \fB\&.SUFFIXES:\fR targets; a
\fB\&.SUFFIXES\fR target with no dependencies clears the list of suffixes.
Order is significant within the list; \fBmake\fR selects a rule that
corresponds to the target's suffix and the first dependency-file suffix found
in the list. To place suffixes at the head of the list, clear the list and
replace it with the new suffixes, followed by the default list:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   .SUFFIXES:
   .SUFFIXES: \fIsuffixes\fR $(SUFFIXES)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
A tilde (\fB~\fR) indicates that if a dependency file with the indicated suffix
(minus the ~) is under \fBSCCS\fR its most recent version should be retrieved,
if necessary, before the target is processed.
.SS "Library Maintenance"
.LP
A target name  of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   \fIlib\fR(\fImember ...\fR)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
refers to a member, or a space-separated list of members, in an \fBar\fR(1)
library.
.sp
.LP
The dependency of the library member on the corresponding file must be given as
an explicit entry in the makefile. This can be handled by a pattern matching
rule of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   \fIlib\fR(%\fI\&.s\fR): %\fI\&.s\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fI\&.s\fR is the suffix of the member; this suffix is typically
\fB\&.o\fR for object libraries.
.sp
.LP
A target name of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   \fIlib\fR((\fIsymbol\fR))
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
refers to the member of a randomized object library that defines the entry
point named \fIsymbol\fR.
.SS "Command Execution"
.LP
Command lines are executed one at a time, \fIeach by its own process or
shell\fR. Shell commands, notably \fBcd\fR, are ineffectual across an unescaped
\fBNEWLINE\fR in the makefile. A line is printed (after macro expansion) just
before being executed. This is suppressed if it starts with a \fB@\fR, if there
is a \fB\&.SILENT:\fR entry in the makefile, or if \fBmake\fR is run with the
\fB-s\fR option. Although the \fB-n\fR option specifies printing without
execution, lines containing the macro \fB$(MAKE)\fR are executed regardless,
and lines containing the \fB@\fR special character are printed. The \fB-t\fR
(touch) option updates the modification date of a file without executing any
rules. This can be dangerous when sources are maintained by more than one
person.
.sp
.LP
\fBmake\fR invokes the shell with the \fB-e\fR (exit-on-errors) argument. Thus,
with semicolon-separated command sequences, execution of the later commands
depends on the success of the former. This behavior can be overridden by
starting the command line with a \fB\|-\fR, or by writing a shell script that
returns a non-zero status only as it finds appropriate.
.SS "Bourne Shell Constructs"
.LP
To use the Bourne shell \fBif\fR control structure for branching, use a command
line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if \fIexpression\fR ; \e
then \fIcommand\fR ; \e
     ... ; \e
else \fIcommand\fR; \e
     ... ; \e
fi
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Although composed of several input lines, the escaped \fBNEWLINE\fR characters
insure that \fBmake\fR treats them all as one (shell) command line.
.sp
.LP
To use the Bourne shell \fBfor\fR control structure for loops, use a command
line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
for \fIvar\fR in \fIlist\fR ; \e
do \fIcommand\fR; \e
     ... \fB; \e\fRdone
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
To refer to a shell variable, use a double-dollar-sign (\fB$$\fR). This
prevents expansion of the dollar-sign by \fBmake\fR.
.SS "Command Substitutions"
.LP
To incorporate the standard output of a shell command in a macro, use a
definition of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
   \fIMACRO\|\fR:sh =\fIcommand\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The command is executed only once, standard error output is discarded, and
\fBNEWLINE\fR characters are replaced with \fBSPACE\fRs. If the command has a
non-zero exit status, \fBmake\fR halts with an error.
.sp
.LP
To capture the output of a shell command in a macro reference, use a reference
of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$(\fIMACRO\|\fR:sh)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fIMACRO\fR is the name of a macro containing a valid Bourne shell
command line. In this case, the command is executed whenever the reference is
evaluated. As with shell command substitutions, the reference is replaced with
the standard output of the command. If the command has a non-zero exit status,
\fBmake\fR halts with an error.
.sp
.LP
In contrast to commands in rules, the command is not subject for macro
substitution; therefore, a dollar sign (\fB$\fR) need not be replaced with a
double dollar sign (\fB$$\fR).
.SS "\fISignals\fR"
.LP
\fBINT\fR, \fBSIGTERM\fR, and \fBQUIT\fR signals received from the keyboard
halt \fBmake\fR and remove the target file being processed unless that target
is in the dependency list for \fB\&.PRECIOUS:\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDefining dependencies
.sp
.LP
This makefile says that \fBpgm\fR depends on two files \fBa.o\fR and \fBb.o\fR,
and that they in turn depend on their corresponding source files (\fBa.c\fR and
\fBb.c\fR) along with a common file \fBincl.h\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
pgm:  a.o  b.o
     $(LINK.c) -o $@a.o  b.o
a.o:  incl.h  a.c
     cc -c a.c
b.o:  incl.h  b.c
     cc -c b.c
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUsing implicit rules
.sp
.LP
The following makefile uses implicit rules to express the same dependencies:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
pgm:  a.o  b.o
     cc  a.o  b.o -o pgm
a.o  b.o:  incl.h
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBmake\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDMAKE_MAX_JOBS\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The maximum number of jobs that each instance of \fBmake\fR should run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDMAKE_ADJUST_MAX_JOBS\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
If \fBYES\fR adjust the maximum number of jobs each instance of \fBmake\fR
runs based on system load.  If \fBNO\fR do not
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDMAKE_OUTPUT_MODE\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Adjusts the format of output from \fBmake\fR when executing jobs in parallel.

If the value is \fBTEXT1\fR \fBmake\fR will print the hostname and the command
executed once when the job begins, and again preceding any output from that
job.

If the value is \fBTEXT2\fR \fBmake\fR will only print the command and its
output only once, when execution is complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDMAKE_MODE\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specify whether jobs should be executed in serial, or parallel.  Equivalent to
passing the \fB-m\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKEEP_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This environment variable has the same effect as the .KEEP_STATE:
special-function target. It enables command dependencies, hidden dependencies
and writing of the state file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSE_SVR4_MAKE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This environment variable causes \fBmake\fR to invoke the generic System V
version of \fBmake\fR (\fB/usr/lib/svr4.make\fR). See \fBsysV-make\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAKEFLAGS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This variable is interpreted as a character string representing a series of
option characters to be used as the default options. The implementation accepts
both of the following formats (but need not accept them when intermixed):
.RS +4
.TP
1.
The characters are option letters without the leading hyphens or blank
character separation used on a command line.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
The characters are formatted in a manner similar to a portion of the
\fBmake\fR command line: options are preceded by hyphens and
blank-character-separated. The \fImacro=name\fR macro definition operands can
also be included. The difference between the contents of \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR and
the command line is that the contents of the variable is not subjected to the
word expansions associated with parsing the command line values. See
\fBwordexp\fR(3C).
.sp
When the command-line options \fB-f\fR or \fB-p\fR are used, they take effect
regardless of whether they also appear in \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR. If they otherwise
appear in \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR, the result is undefined.
.RE
The \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR variable is accessed from the environment before the
makefile is read. At that time, all of the options (except \fB-f\fR and
\fB-p\fR) and command-line macros not already included in \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR are
added to the \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR macro. The \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR macro is passed into
the environment as an environment variable for all child processes. If the
\fBMAKEFLAGS\fR macro is subsequently set by the makefile, it replaces the
\fBMAKEFLAGS\fR variable currently found in the environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROJECTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Provides a directory to be used to search for SCCS files not found in the
current  directory. In all of the following cases, the search for SCCS files is
made in  the directory SCCS in the identified directory. If the value of
\fBPROJECTDIR\fR begins with a slash, it shall be considered an absolute
pathname. Otherwise, the value of \fBPROJECTDIR\fR is treated as a user name
and that user's initial working directory shall be examined for a subdirectory
\fBsrc\fR or \fBsource\fR. If such a directory is found, it shall be used.
Otherwise, the value is used as a relative pathname.
.sp
If \fBPROJECTDIR\fR is not set or has a null value, the search for SCCS files
shall be made in the directory SCCS in the current directory. The setting of
\fBPROJECTDIR\fR affects all files listed in the remainder of this utility
description for files  with a component named SCCS.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
When the \fB-q\fR option is specified, the \fBmake\fR utility exits with one of
the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The target was not up-to-date.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When the \fB-q\fR option is not specified, the \fBmake\fR utility exits with
one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmakefile\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBMakefile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
current version(s) of \fBmake\fR description file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs.makefile\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBs.Makefile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBSCCS\fR history files for the above makefile(s) in the current directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCCS/s.makefile\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBSCCS/s.Makefile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBSCCS\fR history files for the above makefile(s)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmake.rules\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default file for user-defined targets, macros, and implicit rules
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
makefile for standard implicit rules and macros (not read if \fBmake.rules\fR
is)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.make.state\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
state file in the local directory
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/make"
.TS
box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBarch\fR(1), \fBcd\fR(1), \fBcpp\fR(1), \fBlex\fR(1),
\fBmach\fR(1), \fBsccs-get\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBsysV-make\fR(1),
\fByacc\fR(1), \fBwordexp\fR(3C), \fBpasswd\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBPOSIX.2\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Advanced User\&'s Guide\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDon't know how to make target \fItarget\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is no makefile entry for \fItarget\fR, and none of \fBmake\fR's implicit
rules apply (there is no dependency file with a suffix in the suffixes list, or
the target's suffix is not in the list).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB***\fR \fItarget\fR \fBremoved.\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBmake\fR was interrupted while building \fItarget\fR. Rather than leaving a
partially-completed version that is newer than its dependencies, \fBmake\fR
removes the file named \fItarget\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB***\fR \fItarget\fR \fBnot removed.\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBmake\fR was interrupted while building \fItarget\fR and \fItarget\fR was not
present in the directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB***\fR \fItarget\fR \fBcould not be removed,\fR \fIreason\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBmake\fR was interrupted while building \fItarget\fR, which was not removed
for the indicated reason.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBRead of include file `\fR\fIfile\fR\fB' failed\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The makefile indicated in an \fBinclude\fR directive was not found or was
inaccessible.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBLoop detected when expanding macro value `\fR\fImacro\fR\fB'\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A reference to the macro being defined was found in the definition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.nf
\fBCould not open temporary statefile `\fR\fIfile\fR\fB'\fR
\fBCould not delete old statefile `\fR\fIfile\fR\fB'\fR
.fi
.sp .6
.RS 4n
You used the \fB\&.KEEP_STATE:\fR target, but you do not have write permission
on the state file or on a temporary version of the file written first.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB***Error code\fR \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The previous shell command returned a nonzero error code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB***\fR \fIsignal message\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The previous shell command was aborted due to a signal. If \fB- core dumped\fR
appears after the message, a \fBcore\fR file was created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBConditional macro conflict encountered\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displayed only when \fB-d\fR is in effect, this message indicates that two or
more parallel targets currently being processed depend on a target which is
built differently for each by virtue of conditional macros. Since the target
cannot simultaneously satisfy both dependency relationships, it is conflicted.
.RE

.SH BUGS
.LP
Some commands return nonzero status inappropriately; to overcome this
difficulty, prefix the offending command line in the rule with a \fB\(mi\fR\&.
.sp
.LP
Filenames with the characters \fB=\fR, \fB:\fR, or \fB@\fR, do not work.
.sp
.LP
You cannot build \fBfile.o\fR from \fBlib(file.o)\fR.
.sp
.LP
Options supplied by \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR should be reported for nested \fBmake\fR
commands. Use the \fB-d\fR option to find out what options the nested command
picks up from \fBMAKEFLAGS\fR.
.sp
.LP
This version of \fBmake\fR is incompatible in certain respects with previous
versions:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The \fB-d\fR option output is much briefer in this version. \fB-dd\fR now
produces the equivalent voluminous output.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBmake\fR attempts to derive values for the dynamic macros \fB$*\fR, \fB$<\fR,
and \fB$?\fR, while processing explicit targets. It uses the same method as for
implicit rules; in some cases this can lead either to unexpected values, or to
an empty value being assigned. (Actually, this was true for earlier versions as
well, even though the documentation stated otherwise.)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBmake\fR no longer searches for \fBSCCS\fR history (\fBs\fR.) files.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Suffix replacement in macro references are now applied after the macro is
expanded.
.RE
.sp
.LP
There is no guarantee that makefiles created for this version of \fBmake\fR
work with earlier versions.
.sp
.LP
If there is no \fBmake.rules\fR file in the current directory, and the file
\fB/usr/share/lib/make/make.rules\fR is missing, \fBmake\fR stops before
processing any targets. To force \fBmake\fR to run anyway, create an empty
\fBmake.rules\fR file in the current directory.
.sp
.LP
Once a dependency is made, \fBmake\fR assumes the dependency file is present
for the remainder of the run. If a rule subsequently removes that file and
future targets depend on its existence, unexpected errors can result.
.sp
.LP
When hidden dependency checking is in effect, the \fB$?\fR macro's value
includes the names of hidden dependencies.  This can lead to improper filename
arguments to commands when \fB$?\fR is used in a rule.
.sp
.LP
Pattern replacement macro references cannot be used in the dependency list of a
pattern matching rule.
.sp
.LP
Unlike previous versions, this version of \fBmake\fR strips a leading
\fB\&./\fR from the value of the \fB$@\fR dynamic macro.
.sp
.LP
With automatic \fBSCCS\fR retrieval, this version of \fBmake\fR does not
support tilde suffix rules.
.sp
.LP
The only dynamic macro whose value is strictly determined when used in a
dependency list is \fB$@\fR (takes the form \fB$$@\fR).
.sp
.LP
\fBmake\fR invokes the shell with the \fB-e\fR argument. This cannot be
inferred from the syntax of the rule alone.
