.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH MKDIR 1 "Nov 2, 2007"
.SH NAME
mkdir \- make directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mkdir\fR [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-p\fR] \fIdir\fR...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBmkdir\fR [\fB-p\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR] \fIdir\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkdir\fR command creates the named directories in mode \fB777\fR
(possibly altered by the file mode creation mask \fBumask\fR(1)).
.sp
.LP
Standard entries in a directory (for instance, the files "\fB\&.\fR", for the
directory itself, and "\fB\&.\|.\fR", for its parent) are made automatically.
\fBmkdir\fR cannot create these entries by name. Creation of a directory
requires write permission in the parent directory.
.sp
.LP
The owner-ID and group-ID of the new directories are set to the process's
effective user-ID and group-ID, respectively. \fBmkdir\fR calls the
\fBmkdir\fR(2) system call.
.SS "setgid and mkdir"
.sp
.LP
To change the \fBsetgid\fR bit on a newly created directory, you must use
\fBchmod\fR \fBg+s\fR or \fBchmod\fR \fBg-s\fR after executing \fBmkdir\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetgid\fR bit setting is inherited from the parent directory.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkdir\fR built-in in \fBksh93\fR is associated with the \fB/bin\fR and
\fB/usr/bin\fR paths. It is invoked when \fBmkdir\fR is executed without a
pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a \fB/bin/mkdir\fR or
\fB/usr/bin/mkdir\fR executable. \fBmkdir\fR creates one or more directories.
By default, the mode of created directories is \fBa=rwx\fR minus the bits set
in \fBumask\fR(1).
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fB/usr/bin/mkdir\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
This option allows users to specify the mode to be used for new directories.
Choices for modes can be found in \fBchmod\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
With this option, \fBmkdir\fR creates \fIdir\fR by creating all the
non-existing parent directories first. The mode given to intermediate
directories is the difference between \fB777\fR and the bits set in the file
mode creation mask. The difference, however, must be at least \fB300\fR (write
and execute permission for the user).
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the \fBmkdir\fR built-in in \fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--mode=\fR\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set the mode of created directories to \fImode\fR. \fImode\fR is symbolic or
octal mode as in \fBchmod\fR(1). Relative modes assume an initial mode of
\fBa=rwx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--parents\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Create any missing intermediate pathname components. For each dir operand that
does not name an existing directory, effects equivalent to those caused by the
following command shall occur:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mkdir -p -m $(umask -S),u+wx \e
     $(dirname dir) && mkdir [-m mode] dir
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Where the \fB-m\fR mode option represents that option supplied to the original
invocation of \fBmkdir\fR, if any. Each \fBdir\fR operand that names an
existing directory is ignored without error.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
A path name of a directory to be created.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmkdir\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBmkdir\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmkdir -p ltr/jd/jan\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
creates the subdirectory structure \fBltr/jd/jan\fR.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBmkdir\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All the specified directories were created successfully or the \fB-p\fR option
was specified and all the specified directories now exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/mkdir"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBksh93\fR built-in binding to \fB/bin\fR and \fB/usr/bin\fR is Volatile.
The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBrm\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBumask\fR(1),
\fBIntro\fR(2), \fBmkdir\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
