'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MORE 1 "Nov 4, 2005"
.SH NAME
more, page \- browse or page through a text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/more\fR [\fB-cdflrsuw\fR] [\fB-lines\fR] [+ \fIlinenumber\fR]
     [+/ \fIpattern\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/page\fR [\fB-cdflrsuw\fR] [\fB-lines\fR] [+ \fIlinenumber\fR]
     [+/ \fIpattern\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR [\fB-cdeisu\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIcommand\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItagstring\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR [\fB-cdeisu\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR] [+ \fIcommand\fR]
     [\fB-t\fR \fItagstring\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmore\fR utility is a filter that displays the contents of a text file on
the terminal, one screenful at a time.  It normally pauses after each
screenful. \fB/usr/bin/more\fR then prints \fB--More--\fR and
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR then prints \fIfile\fR at the bottom of the screen. If
\fBmore\fR is reading from a file rather than a pipe, the percentage of
characters displayed so far is also shown.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmore\fR utility scrolls up to display one more line in response to a
\fBRETURN\fR character. \fBmore\fR displays another screenful in response to a
\fBSPACE\fR character. Other commands are listed below.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpage\fR utility clears the screen before displaying the next screenful
of text. \fBpage\fR only provides a one-line overlap between screens.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmore\fR utility sets the terminal to \fBNOECHO\fR mode, so that the
output can be continuous. Commands that you type do not normally show up on
your terminal, except for the \fB/\fR and \fB!\fR commands.
.sp
.LP
The \fB/usr/bin/more\fR utility exits after displaying the last specified file.
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR prompts for a command at the last line of the last
specified file.
.sp
.LP
If the standard output is not a terminal, \fBmore\fR acts just like
\fBcat\fR(1), except that a header is printed before each file in a series.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for both \fB/usr/bin/more\fR and
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Clears before displaying. Redraws the screen instead of scrolling for faster
displays. This option is ignored if the terminal does not have the ability to
clear to the end of a line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Displays error messages rather than ringing the terminal bell if an
unrecognized command is used. This is helpful for inexperienced users.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Squeeze.  Replaces multiple blank lines with a single blank line. This is
helpful when viewing \fBnroff\fR(1) output on the screen.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for \fB/usr/bin/more\fR only:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Does not fold long lines. This is useful when lines contain nonprinting
characters or escape sequences, such as those generated when \fBnroff\fR(1)
output is piped through \fBul\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Does not treat \fBFORMFEED\fR characters (Control-l) as page breaks. If
\fB-l\fR is not used, \fBmore\fR pauses to accept commands after any line
containing a \fB^L\fR character (Control-l). Also, if a file begins with a
\fBFORMFEED\fR, the screen is cleared before the file is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Normally, \fBmore\fR ignores control characters that it does not interpret in
some way. The \fB-r\fR option causes these to be displayed as \fB^\fR\fIC\fR
where \fIC\fR stands for any such control character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Suppresses generation of underlining escape sequences. Normally, \fBmore\fR
handles underlining, such as that produced by \fBnroff\fR(1), in a manner
appropriate to the terminal. If the terminal can perform underlining or has a
stand-out mode, \fBmore\fR supplies appropriate escape sequences as called for
in the text file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Normally, \fBmore\fR exits when it comes to the end of its input. With
\fB-w\fR, however, \fBmore\fR prompts and waits for any key to be struck before
exiting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fIlines\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Displays the indicated number of \fIlines\fR in each screenful, rather than the
default (the number of lines in the terminal screen less two).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fIlinenumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Start up at \fIlinenumber\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+/\fR\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Start up two lines above the line containing the regular expression
\fIpattern\fR. \fBNote:\fR Unlike editors, this construct should \fInot\fR end
with a `\fB/\fR.' If it does, then the trailing slash is taken as a character
in the search pattern.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR only:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Exits immediately after writing the last line of the last file in the argument
list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Performs pattern matching in searches without regard to case.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fInumber\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specifies the number of lines per screenful. The \fInumber\fR argument is a
positive decimal integer. The \fB-n\fR option overrides any values obtained
from the environment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIcommand\fR \fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fIcommand\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
For each file examined, initially executes the \fBmore\fR command in the
\fIcommand\fR argument. If the command is a positioning command, such as a line
number or a regular expression search, set the current position to represent
the final results of the command, without writing any intermediate lines of the
file. For example, the two commands:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBmore -p 1000j file
more -p 1000G file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

are equivalent and start the display with the current position at line 1000,
bypassing the lines that \fBj\fR would write and scroll off the screen if it
had been issued during the file examination. If the positioning command is
unsuccessful, the first line in the file will be the current position.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItagstring\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Writes the screenful of the file containing the tag named by the
\fItagstring\fR argument. See the \fBctags\fR(1) utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Treats a backspace character as a printable control character, displayed as a
^H (Control-h), suppressing backspacing and the special handling that produces
underlined or standout-mode text on some terminal types.  Also, does not ignore
a carriage-return character at the end of a line.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If both the \fB-t\fR\fI tagstring\fR and \fB-p\fR\fI command\fR (or the
obsolescent \fI+command\fR) options are given, the \fB-t\fR\fI tagstring\fR is
processed first.
.SH USAGE
.SS "Environment"
.sp
.LP
\fBmore\fR uses the terminal's \fBterminfo\fR(4) entry to determine its display
characteristics.
.sp
.LP
\fBmore\fR looks in the environment variable \fBMORE\fR for any preset options.
For instance, to page through files using the \fB-c\fR mode by default, set the
value of this variable to \fB-c\fR. (Normally, the command sequence to set up
this environment variable is placed in the \fB\&.login\fR or \fB\&.profile\fR
file).
.SS "Commands"
.sp
.LP
The commands take effect immediately. It is not necessary to type a carriage
return unless the command requires a \fIfile\fR, \fIcommand\fR,
\fItagstring\fR, or \fIpattern\fR. Up to the time when the command character
itself is given, the user may type the line kill character to cancel the
numerical argument being formed. In addition, the user may type the erase
character to redisplay the `\fB--More--(\fR\fIxx\fR%)' or \fIfile\fR message.
.sp
.LP
In the following commands, \fIi\fR is a numerical argument (\fB1\fR by
default).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fRSPACE \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display another screenful, or \fIi\fR more lines if \fIi\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fRRETURN \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display another line, or \fIi\fR more lines, if specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBb\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB^B\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
(Control-b) Skip back \fIi\fR screenfuls and then print a screenful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB^D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
(Control-d) Scroll forward one half screenful or \fIi\fR more lines. If \fIi\fR
is specified, the count becomes the default for subsequent \fBd\fR and \fBu\fR
commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Skip \fIi\fR screens full and then print a screenful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Help. Give a description of all the \fBmore\fR commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB^L\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
(Control-l) Refresh.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Search for the \fIi\|\fRth occurrence of the last \fIpattern\fR entered.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBq\fR \fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBQ\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Exit from \fBmore\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Skip \fIi\fR lines and then print a screenful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBv\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Drop into the \fBvi\fR editor at the current line of the current file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBz\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Same as SPACE, except that \fIi\fR, if present, becomes the new default number
of lines per screenful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB=\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display the current line number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB/\fR\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Search forward for the \fIi\|\fRth occurrence of the regular expression
\fIpattern\fR. Display the screenful starting two lines before the line that
contains the \fIi\|\fRth match for the regular expression \fIpattern\fR, or the
end of a pipe, whichever comes first. If \fBmore\fR is displaying a file and
there is no match, its position in the file remains unchanged. Regular
expressions can be edited using erase and kill characters. Erasing back past
the first column cancels the search command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fIcommand\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Invoke a shell to execute \fIcommand\|\fR. The characters \fB%\fR and \fB!\fR,
when used within \fIcommand\fR are replaced with the current filename and the
previous shell command, respectively. If there is no current filename, \fB%\fR
is not expanded. Prepend a backslash to these characters to escape expansion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display the current filename and line number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB:n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Skip to the \fIi\|\fRth next filename given in the command line, or to the last
filename in the list if \fIi\fR is out of range.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB:p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Skip to the \fIi\|\fRth previous filename given in the command line, or to the
first filename if \fIi\fR is out of range. If given while \fBmore\fR is
positioned within a file, go to the beginning of the file. If \fBmore\fR is
reading from a pipe, \fBmore\fR simply rings the terminal bell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:q\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB:Q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Exit from \fBmore\fR (same as \fBq\fR or \fBQ\fR).
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
The following commands are available only in \fB/usr/bin/more\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&'\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Single quote. Go to the point from which the last search started. If no search
has been performed in the current file, go to the beginning of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&.\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Dot. Repeat the previous command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB^\|\e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Halt a partial display of text. \fBmore\fR stops sending output, and displays
the usual \fB--More--\fR prompt. Some output is lost as a result.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
The following commands are available only in \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB^F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
(Control-f) Skip \fIi\fR screens full and print a screenful. (Same as
\fIi\fR\fBf\fR.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB^G\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
(Control-g) Display the current line number (same as \fB=\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Go to line number \fIi\fR with the default of the first line in the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Go to line number \fIi\fR with the default of the Last line in the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBj\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Display another line, or \fIi\fR more lines, if specified. (Same as
\fIi\fRRETURN.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBk\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Scroll backwards one or \fIi\fR lines, if specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBm\fR\fIletter\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Mark the current position with the name \fIletter\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBN\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Reverse direction of search.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBr\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Refresh the screen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Refresh the screen, discarding any buffered input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fBu\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB^U\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
(Control-u) Scroll backwards one half a screen of \fIi\fR lines, if specified.
If \fIi\fR is specified, the count becomes the new default for subsequent
\fBd\fR and \fBu\fR commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBZZ\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Exit from \fBmore\fR (same as \fBq\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:e\fR \fIfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Examine (display) a new file. If no \fIfile\fR is specified, the current file
is redisplayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:t\fR \fItagstring\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Go to the tag named by the \fItagstring\fR argument and scroll/rewrite the
screen with the tagged line in the current position. See the \fBctags\fR
utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&'\fR\fIletter\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Return to the position that was previously marked with the name \fIletter\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&''\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Return to the position from which the last move of more than a screenful was
made. Defaults to the beginning of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB?\fR[\fI!\fR]\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Search backward in the file for the \fIi\fRth line containing the
\fIpattern\fR. The \fI!\fR specifies to search backward for the \fIi\fRth line
that does not contain the \fIpattern\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIi\fR\fB/\fR\fB!\fR\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Search forward in the file for the \fIi\fRth line that does not contain the
pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR[\fIcommand\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Invoke a shell or the specified command.
.RE

.SS "Large File Behavior"
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBmore\fR and
\fBpage\fR when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31
bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBmore\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR (\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR only), \fBLC_CTYPE\fR,
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBNLSPATH\fR, and \fBTERM\fR.
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
The following environment variables also affect the execution of
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/more\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCOLUMNS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Overrides the system selected horizontal screen size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDITOR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Used by the \fBv\fR command to select an editor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLINES\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Overrides the system selected vertical screen size. The \fB-n\fR option has
precedence over \fBLINES\fR in determining the number of lines in a screen.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMORE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A string specifying options as described in the OPTIONS section, above. As in a
command line, The options must be separated by blank characters and each option
specification must start with a \(mi. Any command line options are processed
after those specified in \fBMORE\fR as though the command line were: \fBmore
$MORE\fR \fIoptions operands\fR
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/more.help\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
help file for \fB/usr/bin/more\fR and  \fB/usr/bin/page\fR only.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/more /usr/bin/page"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Not enabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/more"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcat\fR(1), \fBcsh\fR(1), \fBctags\fR(1), \fBman\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1),
\fBscript\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBul\fR(1), \fBterminfo\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SS "/usr/bin/more /usr/bin/page"
.sp
.LP
\fBregcomp\fR(3C)
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
\fBregex\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.SS "/usr/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
Skipping backwards is too slow on large files.
.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/more"
.sp
.LP
This utility will not behave correctly if the terminal is not set up properly.
