'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH msgcvt 1 "9 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
msgcvt \- convert message file to and from HTML
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmsgcvt\fR [\fB-hmr\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmsgcvt\fR reads a \fBgencat\fR(1) format file on the standard input and
converts it to \fBHTML\fR on the standard output. The input file must contain
the control statement \fB$quote "\fR and use the \fB"\fR character to quote
message text. The output is in a form suitable for automatic translation by web
sites such as http://babelfish.altavista.com\&.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--html\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Generate \fBHTML\fR from \fBgencat\fR(1) input.
.sp
This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--msg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Generate a \fBgencat\fR(1) message file from (presumably translated)
\fBHTML\fR. Wide characters are UTF-8 encoded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--raw\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The message file is raw message text, one message per line, with no quoting or
line numbering.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
One or more specified jobs does not exist.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRGenerating a \fBgencat\fR Message Catalog File
.sp
.LP
The following example generates a \fBgencat\fR(1) message catalog file from an
HTML file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% cat example.html | msgcvt -m > examplecat
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
Glenn Fowler, \fBgsf@research.att.com\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityVolatile 
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgencat\fR(1), \fBmsgcc\fR(1), \fBmsggen\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
