'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" To view license terms, see http://www.opensource.org/licenses/cpl1.0.txt
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH msgget 1 "9 Oct 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
msgget \- get a message from a message catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBmsgget\fR \fIlocale\fR [\fIcommand\fR\fB:\fR]\fIcatalog\fR [\fIset\fR.]\fInumber\fR [\fItext\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBmsgget\fR gets the message corresponding to the parameters. See
\fBOPERANDS\fR.
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcatalog\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specifies the message catalog name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcommand\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specifies command-specific message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIlocale\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specifies the locale. If \fIlocale\fR is \fB-\fR then the current locale is
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB[\fR\fIset\fR\fB].\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Identifies the message by message number and an optional message set. If
specified as \fB-\fR , the message set and number are determined by looking up
text in the corresponding C locale message catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt  
Specifies the text of the message to be output upon error.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRGetting a Message in the Current Locale
.sp
.LP
The following example gets \fBmsg 1\fR in the current locale from message
catalog \fBhello\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% msgget - hello 1
hello world
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
Glenn Fowler, \fBgsf@research.att.com\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityVolatile
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiconv\fR(1), \fBmsgcc\fR(1), \fBmsggen\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
