'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NCAKMOD 1 "Sep 28, 2001"
.SH NAME
ncakmod \- start or stop the NCA kernel module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod\fR \fBstart\fR | \fBstop\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBncakmod\fR is used to start or stop the Solaris Network Cache and
Accelerator ("NCA") kernel module.
.sp
.LP
When the \fBstart\fR option is specified at the command-line, the \fBNCA\fR
kernel module will be activated for all physical interfaces listed in the
\fBnca.if\fR file. When the \fBncakmod\fR command is invoked with the
\fBstop\fR option, the NCA kernel module will print the following message:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
To stop NCA, please set the status configuration parameter
to disable in ncakmod.conf and then reboot your system. See
the ncakmod.conf(4) manual page for more information.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Note that in order to properly stop \fBNCA\fR on your system, you must first
edit the \fBncakmod.conf\fR(4) file and set the status field to "disable," then
reboot your system.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstart\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Starts the \fBNCA\fR kernel module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstop\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Describes the current method for stopping the \fBNCA\fR feature.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRStarting and Stopping the NCA Feature
.sp
.LP
The following command is used to start the NCA feature:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod start\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/init.d/ncakmod\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The NCA kernel module startup script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nca/ncakmod.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies configuration options for the NCA kernel module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnca\fR(1), \fBncab2clf\fR(1), \fBncad_addr\fR(4), \fBnca.if\fR(4),
\fBncakmod.conf\fR(4), \fBncalogd.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
