'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NEWFORM 1 "Jul 21, 1997"
.SH NAME
newform \- change the format of a text file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnewform\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-i\fR\fItabspec\fR] [\fB-o\fR\fItabspec\fR] [\fB-b\fR\fIn\fR] [\fB-e\fR\fIn\fR] [\fB-p\fR\fIn\fR]
     [\fB-a\fR\fIn\fR] [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-c\fR\fIchar\fR] [\fB-l\fR\fIn\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnewform\fR reads lines from the named \fIfilename\fRs, or the standard input
if no input file is named, and reproduces the lines on the standard output.
Lines are reformatted in accordance with command line options in effect.
.sp
.LP
Except for \fB-s\fR, command line options may appear in any order, may be
repeated, and may be intermingled with the optional \fIfilename\fRs. Command
line options are processed in the order specified. This means that option
sequences like ``\fB-e\fR15 \fB-l\fR60'' will yield results different from
``\fB-l\fR60 \fB-e\fR15''. Options are applied to all \fIfilename\fRs on the
command line.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Shears off leading characters on each line up to the first tab and places up to
8 of the sheared characters at the end of the line. If more than 8 characters
(not counting the first tab) are sheared, the eighth character is replaced by a
\fB*\fR and any characters to the right of it are discarded. The first tab is
always discarded.
.sp
An error message and program exit will occur if this option is used on a file
without a tab on each line. The characters sheared off are saved internally
until all other options specified are applied to that line. The characters are
then added at the end of the processed line.
.sp
For example, to convert a file with leading digits, one or more tabs, and text
on each line, to a file beginning with the text, all tabs after the first
expanded to spaces, padded with spaces out to column 72 (or truncated to column
72), and the leading digits placed starting at column 73, the command would be:
.sp
\fBnewform \|\fR\fB-s\fR\fB \|\fR\fB-i\fR\fB \|\fR\fB-l\fR\fB \|\fR\fB-a\fR\fB
\|\fR\fB-e\fR\fB \|\fIfilename\fR\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fItabspec\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Input tab specification: expands tabs to spaces, according to the tab
specifications given. \fITabspec\fR recognizes all tab specification forms
described in \fBtabs\fR(1). In addition, \fItabspec\fR may be \fB-\fR, in which
\fBnewform\fR assumes that the tab specification is to be found in the first
line read from the standard input (see \fBfspec\fR(4)). If no \fItabspec\fR is
given, \fItabspec\fR defaults to \fB\(mi8\fR\&. A \fItabspec\fR of \fB\(mi0\fR
expects no tabs; if any are found, they are treated as \fB\(mi1\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fItabspec\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Output tab specification: replaces spaces by tabs, according to the tab
specifications given. The tab specifications are the same as for
\fB-i\fR\fItabspec\fR. If no \fItabspec\fR is given, \fItabspec\fR defaults to
\fB\(mi8\fR\&. A \fItabspec\fR of \fB\(mi0\fR means that no spaces will be
converted to tabs on output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fIn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Truncate \fIn\fR characters from the beginning of the line when the line length
is greater than the effective line length (see \fB\(mil\fIn\fR\fR). Default is
to truncate the number of characters necessary to obtain the effective line
length. The default value is used when \fB-b\fR with no \fIn\fR is used. This
option can be used to delete the sequence numbers from a \fBCOBOL\fR program as
follows:
.sp
\fBnewform \|\fR\fB-l\fR\fB1 \|\fR\fB-b\fR\fB7 \|\fIfilename\fR\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Same as \fB-b\fR\fIn\fR except that characters are truncated from the end of
the line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Prefix \fIn\fR characters (see \fB-c\fR\fIchar\fR) to the beginning of a line
when the line length is less than the effective line length. Default is to
prefix the number of characters necessary to obtain the effective line length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Same as \fB-p\fR\fIn\fR except characters are appended to the end of a line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Write the tab specification format line on the standard output before any other
lines are output. The tab specification format line which is printed will
correspond to the format specified in the \fBlast\fR \fB-o\fR option. If no
\fB-o\fR option is specified, the line which is printed will contain the
default specification of \fB\(mi8\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fIchar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Change the prefix/append character to \fIchar\fR. Default character for
\fIchar\fR is a space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Set the effective line length to \fIn\fR characters. If \fIn\fR is not entered,
\fB-l\fR defaults to 72. The default line length without the \fB-l\fR option is
80 characters. Note:  Tabs and backspaces are considered to be one character
(use \fB-i\fR to expand tabs to spaces).
.sp
The \fB\(mil1\fR must be used to set the effective line length shorter than any
existing line in the file so that the \fB-b\fR option is activated.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Input file
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Operation failed.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsplit\fR(1), \fBtabs\fR(1), \fBfspec\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
All diagnostics are fatal.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBusage:\fR \fB \|.\|.\|.\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBnewform\fR was called with a bad option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB"not \fR\fB-s\fR\fB format"\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There was no tab on one line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB"can't open file"\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Self-explanatory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB"internal line too long"\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A line exceeds 512 characters after being expanded in the internal work buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB"tabspec in error" \fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A tab specification is incorrectly formatted, or specified tab stops are not
ascending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB"tabspec indirection illegal" \fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A \fItabspec\fR read from a file (or standard input) may not contain a
\fItabspec\fR referencing another file (or standard input).
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBnewform\fR normally only keeps track of physical characters; however, for
the \fB-i\fR and \fB-o\fR options, \fBnewform\fR will keep track of backspaces
in order to line up tabs in the appropriate logical columns.
.sp
.LP
\fBnewform\fR will not prompt the user if a \fItabspec\fR is to be read from
the standard input (by use of \fB\fR\fB-i\fR\fB-\fR or \fB\fR\fB-o\fR\fB-\fR).
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-f\fR option is used, and the last \fB-o\fR option specified was
\fB\fR\fB-o\fR\fB-\fR, and was preceded by either a \fB\fR\fB-o\fR\fB-\fR or a
\fB\fR\fB-i\fR\fB-\fR, the tab specification format line will be incorrect.
