'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NEWS 1 "Dec 20, 1996"
.SH NAME
news \- print news items
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnews\fR [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-s\fR] [\fIitems\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnews\fR is used to keep the user informed of current events. By convention,
these events are described by files in the directory \fB/var/news\fR.
.sp
.LP
When invoked without arguments, \fBnews\fR prints the contents of all current
files in \fB/var/news\fR, most recent first, with each preceded by an
appropriate header. \fBnews\fR stores the ``currency'' time as the modification
date of a file named \fB\&.news_time\fR in the user's home directory (the
identity of this directory is determined by the environment variable
\fB\fR\fB$HOME\fR\fB \fR\fB);\fR only files more recent than this currency time
are considered ``current.''
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
 Print all items, regardless of currency. In this case, the stored time is not
changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
 Report the names of the current items without printing their contents, and
without changing the stored time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
 report how many current items exist, without printing their names or contents,
and without changing the stored time. It is useful to include such an
invocation of \fBnews\fR in one's \fB\&.profile\fR file, or in the system's
\fB/etc/profile\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other arguments are assumed to be specific news items that are to be
printed.
.sp
.LP
If a \fIdelete\fR is typed during the printing of a news item, printing stops
and the next item is started. Another \fIdelete\fR within one second of the
first causes the program to terminate.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for a description of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR environment
variable that affects the execution of \fBnews\fR.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/profile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/news/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.news_time\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprofile\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5)
