'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH OD 1 "May 20, 2005"
.SH NAME
od \- octal dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/od\fR [\fB-bcCDdFfOoSsvXx\fR] [\fB-\fR] [\fIfile\fR] [\fIoffset_string\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/od\fR [\fB-bcCDdFfOoSsvXx\fR] [\fB-A\fR \fIaddress_base\fR] [\fB-j\fR \fIskip\fR]
     [\fB-N\fR \fIcount\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype_string\fR]... [\fB-\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/od\fR [\fB-bcCDdFfOoSsvXx\fR] [\fIfile\fR] [\fIoffset_string\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin/od\fR [\fB-bcCDdFfOoSsvXx\fR] [\fB-A\fR \fIaddress_base\fR]
     [\fB-j\fR \fIskip\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fIcount\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItype_string\fR]... [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBod\fR command copies sequentially each input file to standard output and
transforms the input data according to the output types specified by the
\fB-t\fR or \fB-bcCDdFfOoSsvXx\fR options. If no output type is specified, the
default output is as if \fB-t\fR \fBo2\fR had been specified.  Multiple types
can be specified by using multiple \fB-bcCDdFfOoSstvXx\fR options. Output lines
are written for each type specified in the order in which the types are
specified.  If no \fIfile\fR is specified, the standard input is used.  The
[\fIoffset_string\fR] operand is mutually exclusive from the \fB-A\fR,
\fB-j\fR, \fB-N\fR, and \fB-t\fR options. For the purposes of this description,
the following terms are used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBword\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Refers to a 16-bit unit, independent of the word size of the machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBlong word\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Refers to a 32-bit unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdouble long word\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Refers to a 64-bit unit.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR \fIaddress_base\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Specifies the input offset base. The \fIaddress_base\fR option-argument must be
a character.  The characters \fBd\fR, \fBo\fR and \fBx\fR specify that the
offset base will be written in decimal, octal or hexadecimal, respectively. The
character \fBn\fR specifies that the offset will not be written. Unless
\fB-A\fR \fBn\fR is specified, the output line will be preceded by the input
offset, cumulative across input files, of the next byte to be written. In
addition, the offset of the byte following the last byte written will be
displayed after all the input data has been processed. Without the \fB-A\fR
\fIaddress_base\fR option and the [\fIoffset_string\fR] operand, the input
offset base is displayed in octal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Interprets bytes in octal.  This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR \fBo1\fR.
.RE

.SS "/usr/bin/od"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Displays single-byte characters. Certain non-graphic characters appear as
C-language escapes:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
null	        \fB\e0\fR
backspace	   \fB\eb\fR
form-feed	   \fB\ef\fR
new-line	   \fB\en\fR
return	   \fB\er\fR
tab	        \fB\et\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Others appear as 3-digit octal numbers. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBecho "hello world" | od \(mic\fR
0000000   h   e   l   l   o       w   o   r   l   d  \en
0000014
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/od"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets bytes as single-byte or multibyte characters according to the
current setting of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR locale category. Printable multibyte
characters are written in the area corresponding to the first byte of the
character. The two-character sequence \fB**\fR is written in the area
corresponding to each remaining byte in the character, as an indication that
the character is continued. Non-graphic characters appear the same as they
would using the \fB-C\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets bytes as single-byte or multibyte characters according to the
current setting of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR locale category. Printable multibyte
characters are written in the area corresponding to the first byte of the
character. The two-character sequence ** is written in the area corresponding
to each remaining byte in the character, as an indication that the character is
continued. Certain non-graphic characters appear as C escapes:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
null	        \fB\e0\fR
backspace	   \fB\eb\fR
form-feed	   \fB\ef\fR
new-line	   \fB\en\fR
return	   \fB\er\fR
tab	        \fB\et\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Other non-printable characters appear as one three-digit octal number for each
byte in the character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets words in unsigned decimal.  This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR \fBu2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets long words in unsigned decimal. This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR
\fBu4\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets long words in floating point.  This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR
\fBf4\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets double long words in extended precision. This is equivalent to
\fB-t\fR \fBf8\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-j\fR \fIskip\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Jumps over \fIskip\fR bytes from the beginning of the input. The \fBod\fR
command will read or seek past the first \fIskip\fR bytes in the concatenated
input files.  If the combined input is not at least \fIskip\fR bytes long, the
\fBod\fR command will write a diagnostic message to standard error and exit
with a non-zero exit status.
.sp
By default, the \fIskip\fR option-argument is interpreted as a decimal number.
With a leading \fB0x\fR or \fB0X\fR, the offset is interpreted as a hexadecimal
number; otherwise, with a leading \fB0\fR, the offset will be interpreted as an
octal number.  Appending the character \fBb\fR, \fBk\fR, or \fBm\fR to offset
will cause it to be interpreted as a multiple of \fB512\fR, \fB1024\fR or
\fB1\|048\|576\fR bytes, respectively. If the \fIskip\fR number is hexadecimal,
any appended \fBb\fR is considered to be the final hexadecimal digit. The
address is displayed starting at \fB0000000\fR, and its base is not implied by
the base of the \fIskip\fR option-argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fIcount\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Formats no more than \fIcount\fR bytes of input. By default, \fIcount\fR is
interpreted as a decimal number.  With a leading \fB0x\fR or \fB0X\fR,
\fIcount\fR is interpreted as a hexadecimal number; otherwise, with a leading
\fB0\fR, it is interpreted as an octal number. If \fIcount\fR bytes of input
(after successfully skipping, if \fB-j\fR\fIskip\fR is specified) are not
available, it will not be considered an error. The \fBod\fR command will format
the input that is available.  The base of the address displayed is not implied
by the base of the \fIcount\fR option-argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets words in octal. This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR \fBo2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-O\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets long words in unsigned octal.  This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR
\fBo4\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets words in signed decimal. This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR \fBd2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets long words in signed decimal. This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR
\fBd4\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItype_string\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Specifies one or more output types. The \fItype_string\fR option-argument must
be a string specifying the types to be used when writing the input data. The
string must consist of the type specification characters:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
\fINamed character\fR. Interprets bytes as named characters. Only the least
significant seven bits of each byte will be used for this type specification.
Bytes with the values listed in the following table will be written using the
corresponding names for those characters.
.sp
The following are named characters in \fBod\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Value   Name

\e000    nul
\e001    soh
\e002    stx
\e003    etx
\e004    eot
\e005    enq
\e006    ack
\e007    bel
\e010    bs
\e011    ht
\e012    lf
\e013    vt
\e014    ff
\e015    cr
\e016    so
\e017    si
\e020    dle
\e021    dc1
\e022    dc2
\e023    dc3
\e024    dc4
\e025    nak
\e026    syn
\e027    etb
\e030    can
\e031    em
\e032    sub
\e033    esc
\e034    fs
\e035    gs
\e036    rs
\e037    us
\e040    sp
\e177    del
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBc\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
\fICharacter\fR. Interprets bytes as single-byte or multibyte characters
specified by the current setting of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR locale category.
Printable multibyte characters are written in the area corresponding to the
first byte of the character. The two-character sequence \fB**\fR is written in
the area corresponding to each remaining byte in the character, as an
indication that the character is continued. Certain non-graphic characters
appear as C escapes: \fB\e0\fR, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR, \fB\en\fR,
\fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR\&. Other non-printable characters appear as one
three-digit octal number for each byte in the character.
.RE

The type specification characters \fBd\fR, \fBf\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, and
\fBx\fR can be followed by an optional unsigned decimal integer that specifies
the number of bytes to be transformed by each instance of the output type.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBf\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
\fIFloating point\fR. Can be followed by an optional \fBF\fR, \fBD\fR, or
\fBL\fR indicating that the conversion should be applied to an item of type
\fBfloat\fR, \fBdouble\fR, or \fBlong double\fR, respectively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, and \fBx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
\fISigned decimal\fR, \fIoctal\fR, \fIunsigned decimal\fR, and
\fIhexadecimal\fR, respectively. Can be followed by an optional \fBC\fR,
\fBS\fR, \fBI\fR, or \fBL\fR indicating that the conversion should be applied
to an item of type \fBchar\fR, \fBshort\fR, \fBint\fR, or \fBlong\fR,
respectively.
.RE

Multiple types can be concatenated within the same \fItype_string\fR and
multiple \fB-t\fR options can be specified. Output lines are written for each
type specified in the order in which the type specification characters are
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Shows all input data (verbose). Without the \fB-v\fR option, all groups of
output lines that would be identical to the immediately preceding output line
(except for byte offsets), will be replaced with a line containing only an
asterisk (*).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets words in hex. This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR \fBx2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Interprets long words in hex. This is equivalent to \fB-t\fR \fBx4\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.SS "/usr/bin/od"
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported for \fB/usr/bin/od\fR only:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Uses the standard input in addition to any files specified.  When this operand
is not given, the standard input is used only if no \fIfile\fR operands are
specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
A path name of a file to be read. If no \fIfile\fR operands are specified, the
standard input will be used. If there are no more than two operands, none of
the \fB-A\fR, \fB-j\fR, \fB-N\fR, or \fB-t\fR options is specified, and
\fIany\fR of the following are true:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
the first character of the last operand is a plus sign (+)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
the first character of the second operand is numeric
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
the first character of the second operand is \fBx\fR and the second
character of the second operand is a lower-case hexadecimal character or digit
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
the second operand is named "\fBx\fR"
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
the second operand is named "\fB\&.\fR"
.RE
then the corresponding operand is assumed to be an offset operand rather than a
file operand.
.sp
Without the \fB-N\fR count option, the display continues until an end-of-file
is reached.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB[+][0]\fR \fIoffset\fR \fB[.][b|B]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB[+][0][\fR\fIoffset\fR] \fB[.]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB[+][0x|x]\fR[\fIoffset\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB[+][0x|x]\fR \fIoffset\fR\fB[B]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The \fIoffset_string\fR operand specifies the byte offset in the file where
dumping is to commence.  The offset is interpreted in octal bytes by default.
If \fIoffset\fR begins with "\fB0\fR", it is interpreted in octal. If
\fIoffset\fR begins with "\fBx\fR" or "\fB0x\fR", it is interpreted in
hexadecimal and any appended "\fBb\fR" is considered to be the final
hexadecimal digit. If "." is appended, the offset is interpreted in decimal. If
"\fBb\fR" or "\fBB\fR" is appended, the offset is interpreted in units of
\fB512\fR bytes. If the \fBfile\fR argument is omitted, the \fIoffset\fR
argument must be preceded by a plus sign (\fB+\fR).  The address is displayed
starting at the given offset.  The radix of the address will be the same as the
radix of the offset, if specified, otherwise it will be octal.  Decimal
overrides octal, and it is an error to specify both hexadecimal and decimal
conversions in the same offset operand.
.RE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/od"
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported for \fB/usr/xpg4/bin/od\fR only:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Same as \fB/usr/bin/od\fR, except only one of the first two conditions must be
true.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB[+] [0] \fR\fIoffset\fR \fB[.]\|[b|B]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB+ [\fR\fIoffset\fR] \fB[.]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB[+][0x]\fR[\fIoffset\fR]\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB[+][0x]\fR \fIoffset\fR\fB\|[B]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB+x [\fR\fIoffset\fR\fB]\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB+x\fR\fIoffset \fR\fB[B]\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Description of \fIoffset_string\fR is the same as for \fB/usr/bin/od\fR.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBod\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBLC_NUMERIC\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/od"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	enabled
.TE

.SS "/usr/xpg4/bin/od"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsed\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
