'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ON 1 "Oct 8, 2003"
.SH NAME
on \- execute a command on a remote system with the local environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBon\fR [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-n\fR] \fIhost\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIargument\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBon\fR program is used to execute commands on another system, in an
environment similar to that invoking the program. All environment variables are
passed and the current working directory is preserved. To preserve the working
directory, the working file system must be either already mounted on the host
or be exported to it. Relative path names will only work if they are within the
current file system. Absolute path names may cause problems.
.sp
.LP
The standard input is connected to the standard input of the remote command.
The standard output and the standard error from the remote command are sent to
the corresponding files for the \fBon\fR command.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Debug mode. Prints out some messages as work is being done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Interactive mode. Uses remote echoing and special character processing. This
option is needed for programs that expect to be talking to a terminal. All
terminal modes and window size changes are propagated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
No Input. This option causes the remote program to get EOF when it reads from
the standard input, instead of passing the standard input from the standard
input of the \fBon\fR program. For example, \fB-n\fR is necessary when running
commands in the background with job control.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchkey\fR(1), \fBrlogin\fR(1), \fBrsh\fR(1), \fBtelnet\fR(1),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunknown host\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Host name not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcannot connect to server\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Host down or not running the server.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcan't find\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Problem finding the working directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcan't locate mount point\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Problem finding current file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRPC: Authentication error\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server requires \fBDES\fR authentication and you  do not have a secret key
registered with keyserv. Perhaps you logged in without a password. Try to
keylogin.  If that fails, try to set your publickey with chkey.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBon \fIserver\fR: RPC: can't encode arguments\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fB10240\fR byte limit for arguments to be encoded and passed from the
sending to the receiving system has been exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Other diagnostic messages may be passed back from the server.
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
When the working directory is remote mounted over \fBNFS\fR, a Control-Z hangs
the window.
.sp
.LP
Root cannot use \fBon\fR.
