'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH OPTISA 1 "Jul 25, 1997"
.SH NAME
optisa \- determine which variant instruction set is optimal to use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBoptisa\fR \fIinstruction_set\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBoptisa\fR prints which  \fIinstruction_set\fR out of the ones specified in
the command will perform best on  this machine.  In this case, ``best'' is
defined by the order  in which instruction set names are returned by
\fBisalist\fR(1). Possible values for \fIinstruction_set\fR are given in
\fBisalist\fR(5).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
One of the  \fIinstruction_set\fR values you specified is printed by this
command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
There is no output; that is, this machine cannot use any  \fIinstruction_set\fR
that you specified with the \fBoptisa\fR command.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBisalist\fR(1), \fBuname\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBisalist\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBoptisa\fR is preferable to  \fBuname\fR \fB-p\fR or  \fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR
(see \fBuname\fR(1)) in determining which of several binary versions of a given
program  should be used on the given machine.
