'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAX 1 "Jul 16, 2008"
.SH NAME
pax \- portable archive interchange
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpax\fR [\fB-cdnv\fR] [\fB-H\fR | \fB-L\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIarchive\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR]...
     [\fB-s\fR \fIreplstr\fR]... [\fIpattern\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpax\fR \fB-r\fR [\fB-cdiknuv@/\fR] [\fB-H\fR | \fB-L\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIarchive\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR]...
     [\fB-p\fR \fIstring\fR]... [\fB-s\fR \fIreplstr\fR]... [\fIpattern\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpax\fR \fB-w\fR [\fB-dituvX@/\fR] [\fB-H\fR | \fB-L\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIblocksize\fR] [\fB-a\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fIarchive\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR]... [\fB-s\fR \fIreplstr\fR]...
     [\fB-x\fR \fIformat\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpax\fR \fB-r\fR \fB-w\fR [\fB-diklntuvX@/\fR] [\fB-H\fR | \fB-L\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR]...
     [\fB-p\fR \fIstring\fR]... [\fB-s\fR \fIreplstr\fR]... [\fIfile\fR]... \fIdirectory\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpax\fR reads, writes, and writes lists of the members of archive files and
copies directory hierarchies. A variety of archive formats are supported. See
the \fB-x\fR \fIformat\fR option.
.SS "Modes of Operations"
.sp
.LP
The action to be taken depends on the presence of the \fB-r\fR and \fB-w\fR
options. The four combinations of \fB-r\fR and \fB-w\fR are referred to as the
four modes of operation: \fBlist\fR, \fBread\fR, \fBwrite\fR, and \fBcopy\fR
modes, corresponding respectively to the four forms shown in the SYNOPSIS.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
In \fBlist\fR mode, that is, when neither \fB-r\fR nor \fB-w\fR are specified,
\fBpax\fR writes the names of the members of the archive file read from the
standard input, with path names matching the specified patterns, to standard
output. If a named file has extended attributes, the extended attributes are
also listed. If a named file is of type directory, the file hierarchy rooted at
that file is listed as well.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBread\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
In \fBread\fR mode, that is, when \fB-r\fR is specified, but \fB-w\fR is not,
\fBpax\fR extracts the members of the archive file read from the standard
input, with path names matching the specified patterns. If an extracted file is
of type directory, the file hierarchy rooted at that file is extracted as well.
The extracted files are created performing path name resolution with the
directory in which \fBpax\fR was invoked as the current working directory.
.sp
If an attempt is made to extract a directory when the directory already exists,
this is not considered an error. If an attempt is made to extract a \fBFIFO\fR
when the \fBFIFO\fR already exists, this is not considered an error.
.sp
The ownership, access and modification times, and file mode of the restored
files are discussed under the \fB-p\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwrite\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
In \fBwrite\fR mode, that is, when \fB-w\fR is specified, but \fB-r\fR is not,
\fBpax\fR writes the contents of the \fIfile\fR operands to the standard output
in an archive format. If no \fIfile\fR operands are specified, a list of files
to copy, one per line, are read from the standard input. A file of type
directory includes all of the files in the file hierarchy rooted at the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcopy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
In \fBcopy\fR mode, that is, when both \fB-r\fR and \fB-w\fR are specified,
\fBpax\fR copies the \fIfile\fR operands to the destination directory.
.sp
If no \fIfile\fR operands are specified, a list of files to copy, one per line,
are read from the standard input. A file of type directory includes all of the
files in the file hierarchy rooted at the file.
.sp
The effect of the \fBcopy\fR is as if the copied files were written to an
archive file and then subsequently extracted, except that there can be hard
links between the original and the copied files. If the destination directory
is a subdirectory of one of the files to be copied, the results are
unspecified. It is an error if \fIdirectory\fR does not exist, is not writable
by the user, or is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
In \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR modes, if intermediate directories are necessary to
extract an archive member, \fBpax\fR performs actions equivalent to the
\fBmkdir\fR(2) function, called with the following arguments:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The intermediate directory used as the \fIpath\fR argument.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The octal value of \fB777\fR or \fBrwx\fR (read, write, and execute
permissions) as the \fImode\fR argument (see \fBchmod\fR(1)).
.RE
.sp
.LP
If any specified \fIpattern\fR or \fIfile\fR operands are not matched by at
least one file or archive member, \fBpax\fR writes a diagnostic message to
standard error for each one that did not match and exits with a non-zero exit
status.
.sp
.LP
The supported archive formats are automatically detected on input. The default
output archive format is \fBtar\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
A single archive can span multiple files. \fBpax\fR determines what file to
read or write as the next file.
.sp
.LP
If the selected archive format supports the specification of linked files, it
is an error if these files cannot be linked when the archive is extracted,
except if the files to be linked are symbolic links and the system is not
capable of making hard links to symbolic links. In that case, separate copies
of the symbolic link are created instead. Any of the various names in the
archive that represent a file can be used to select the file for extraction.
For archive formats that do not store file contents with each name that causes
a hard link, if the file that contains the data is not extracted during this
\fBpax\fR session, either the data is restored from the original file, or a
diagnostic message is displayed with the name of a file that can be used to
extract the data. In traversing directories, \fBpax\fR detects infinite loops,
that is, entering a previously visited directory that is an ancestor of the
last file visited. When it detects an infinite loop, \fBpax\fR writes a
diagnostic message to standard error and terminates.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Appends files to the end of the archive. This option does not work for some
archive devices, such as 1/4-inch streaming tapes and 8mm tapes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fIblocksize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Blocks the output at a positive decimal integer number of bytes per write to
the archive file. Devices and archive formats can impose restrictions on
blocking. Blocking is automatically determined on input. Portable applications
must not specify a \fIblocksize\fR value larger than \fB32256\fR. Default
blocking when creating archives depends on the archive format. See the \fB-x\fR
option below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Matches all file or archive members except those specified by the \fIpattern\fR
or \fIfile\fR operands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Causes files of type directory being copied or archived or archive members of
type directory being extracted or listed to match only the file or archive
member itself and not the file hierarchy rooted at the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIarchive\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies the path name of the input or output archive, overriding the default
standard input (in \fBlist\fR or \fBread\fR modes) or standard output
(\fBwrite\fR mode).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
If a symbolic link referencing a file of type directory is specified on the
command line, \fBpax\fR archives the file hierarchy rooted in the file
referenced by the link, using the name of the link as the root of the file
hierarchy. Otherwise, if a symbolic link referencing a file of any other file
type which \fBpax\fR can normally archive is specified on the command line,
then \fBpax\fR archives the file referenced by the link, using the name of the
link. The default behavior is to archive the symbolic link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Interactively renames files or archive members. For each archive member
matching a \fIpattern\fR operand or file matching a \fIfile\fR operand, a
prompt is written to the file \fB/dev/tty\fR. The prompt contains the name of
the file or archive member. A line is then read from \fB/dev/tty\fR. If this
line is blank, the file or archive member is skipped. If this line consists of
a single period, the file or archive member is processed with no modification
to its name. Otherwise, its name is replaced with the contents of the line.
\fBpax\fR immediately exits with a non-zero exit status if end-of-file is
encountered when reading a response or if \fB/dev/tty\fR cannot be opened for
reading and writing.
.sp
The results of extracting a hard link to a file that has been renamed during
extraction are unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Prevents the overwriting of existing files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Links files. In \fBcopy\fR mode, hard links are made between the source and
destination file hierarchies whenever possible. If specified in conjunction
with \fB-H\fR or \fB-L\fR, when a symbolic link is encountered, the hard link
created in the destination file hierarchy is to the file referenced by the
symbolic link. If specified when neither \fB-H\fR nor \fB-L\fR is specified,
when a symbolic link is encountered, the implementation creates a hard link to
the symbolic link in the source file hierarchy or copies the symbolic link to
the destination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
If a symbolic link referencing a file of type directory is specified on the
command line or encountered during the traversal of a file hierarchy, \fBpax\fR
archives the file hierarchy rooted in the file referenced by the link, using
the name of the link as the root of the file hierarchy. Otherwise, if a
symbolic link referencing a file of any other file type which \fBpax\fR can
normally archive is specified on the command line or encountered during the
traversal of a file hierarchy, \fBpax\fR archives the file referenced by the
link, using the name of the link. The default behavior is to archive the
symbolic link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Selects the first archive member that matches each \fIpattern\fR operand. No
more than one archive member is matched for each pattern, although members of
type directory still match the file hierarchy rooted at that file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Provides information to the implementation to modify the algorithm for
extracting or writing files. The value of options consists of one or more
comma-separated keywords of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIkeyword\fR[[:]=\fIvalue\fR][,\fIkeyword\fR[[:]=\fIvalue\fR], ...]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Some keywords apply only to certain file formats, as indicated with each
description. Use of keywords that are inapplicable to the file format being
processed produces undefined results.
.sp
Keywords in the \fIoptions\fR argument must be a string that would be a valid
portable filename.
.sp
Keywords are not expected to be filenames, merely to follow the same character
composition rules as portable filenames.
.sp
Keywords can be preceded with white space. The \fIvalue\fR field consists of
zero or more characters. Within \fIvalue\fR, the application precedes any
literal comma with a backslash, which is ignored, but preserves the comma as
part of \fIvalue\fR. A comma as the final character, or a comma followed solely
by white space as the final characters, in \fIoptions\fR is ignored. Multiple
\fB-o\fR options can be specified. If keywords given to these multiple \fB-o\fR
options conflict, the keywords and values appearing later in command line
sequence take precedence and the earlier ones are silently ignored. The
following keyword values of \fIoptions\fR are supported for the file formats as
indicated:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdelete=\fR\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword is applicable only to the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR format. When used in
\fBwrite\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, \fBpax\fR omits from extended header records
that it produces any keywords matching the string pattern. When used in
\fBread\fR or \fBlist\fR mode, \fBpax\fR ignores any keywords matching the
string pattern in the extended header records. In both cases, matching is
performed using the pattern matching notation. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB-o delete=security.*\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

would suppress security-related information.
.sp
When multiple \fB-o\fR \fBdelete=\fR\fIpattern\fR options are specified, the
patterns are additive. All keywords matching the specified string patterns are
omitted from extended header records that \fBpax\fR produces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBexthdr.name=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword is applicable only to the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR format. This keyword
allows user control over the name that is written into the \fBustar\fR header
blocks for the extended header. The name is the contents of \fIstring\fR, after
the following character substitutions have been made:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The directory name of the file, equivalent to the result of the \fIdirname\fR
utility on the translated path name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The filename of the file, equivalent to the result of the \fIbasename\fR
utility on the translated path name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The process ID of the \fBpax\fR process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
A '%' character.
.RE

Any other '%' characters in \fIstring\fR produce undefined results.
.sp
If no \fB-o\fR \fBexthdr.name\fR=\fIstring\fR is specified, \fBpax\fR uses the
following default value:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
%d/PaxHeaders.%p/%f
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBglobexthdr.name=\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword is applicable only to the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR format. When used in
\fBwrite\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode with the appropriate options, \fBpax\fR creates
global extended header records with \fBustar\fR header blocks that are treated
as regular files by previous versions of \fBpax\fR. This keyword allows user
control over the name that is written into the \fBustar\fR header blocks for
global extended header records. The name is the contents of \fIstring\fR, after
the following character substitutions have been made:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An integer that represents the sequence number of the global extended header
record in the archive, starting at \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The process ID of the \fBpax\fR process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
A '%' character.
.RE

Any other '%' characters in \fIstring\fR produce undefined results.
.sp
If no \fB-o\fR \fBglobexthdr.name\fR=\fIstring\fR is specified, \fBpax\fR uses
the following default value:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
$TMPDIR/GlobalHead.%p.%n
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where \fB$TMPDIR\fR represents the value of the \fBTMPDIR\fR environment
variable. If \fBTMPDIR\fR is not set, \fBpax\fR uses \fB/tmp\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinvalid=\fR\fIaction\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword is applicable only to the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR format. This keyword
allows user control over the action \fBpax\fR takes upon encountering values in
an extended header record that, in \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, are invalid
in the destination hierarchy or, in \fBlist\fR mode , cannot be written in the
codeset and current locale of the implementation. The following are invalid
values that are recognized by \fBpax\fR:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, a filename or link name that contains
character encodings invalid in the destination hierarchy. For example, the name
can contain embedded \fBNUL\fRs.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, a filename or link name that is longer than
the maximum allowed in the destination hierarchy, for either a path name
component or the entire path name.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In \fBlist\fR mode, any character string value (filename, link name, user name,
and so on) that cannot be written in the codeset and current locale of the
implementation.
.RE
The following mutually-exclusive values of the \fIaction\fR argument are
supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbypass\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
In \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, \fBpax\fR bypasses the file, causing no
change to the destination hierarchy. In \fBlist\fR mode, \fBpax\fR writes all
requested valid values for the file, but its method for writing invalid values
is unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
In \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, \fBpax\fR acts as if the \fB-i\fR option were
in effect for each file with invalid filename or link name values, allowing the
user to provide a replacement name interactively. In \fBlist\fR mode, \fBpax\fR
behaves identically to the \fBbypass\fR action.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUTF-8\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fBpax\fR uses the actual \fBUTF-8\fR encoding for the name when it is used in
\fBread\fR, \fBcopy\fR, or \fBlist\fR mode and a filename, link name, owner
name, or any other field in an extended header record cannot be translated from
the \fBpax\fR \fBUTF-8\fR codeset format to the codeset and current locale of
the implementation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwrite\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
In \fBread\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, \fBpax\fR writes the file, translating the
name, regardless of whether this can overwrite an existing file with a valid
name. In \fBlist\fR mode, \fBpax\fR behaves identically to the \fBbypass\fR
action.
.RE

If no \fB-o\fR \fBinvalid=\fR option is specified, \fBpax\fR acts as if
\fB-o\fR \fBinvalid=bypass\fR were specified. Any overwriting of existing files
that can be allowed by the \fB-o\fR \fBinvalid=\fR \fIaction\fRs are subject to
permission (\fB-p\fR) and modification time (\fB-u\fR) restrictions, and are
suppressed if the \fB-k\fR option is also specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlinkdata\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword is applicable only to the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR format. In
\fBwrite\fR mode, \fBpax\fR writes the contents of a file to the archive even
when that file is merely a hard link to a file whose contents have already been
written to the archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlistopt=\fR\fIformat\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword specifies the output format of the table of contents produced when
the \fB-v\fR option is specified in \fBlist\fR mode. (See \fBList Mode Format
Specifications\fR below.) To avoid ambiguity, the \fBlistopt=\fR\fIformat\fR is
the only or final \fIkeyword\fR=\fIvalue\fR pair in an \fB-o\fR
option-argument. All characters in the remainder of the option-argument are
considered to be part of the format string. When multiple \fB-o\fR
\fBlistopt=\fR\fIformat\fR options are specified, the format strings are
considered to be a single, concatenated string, evaluated in command line
order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtimes\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This keyword is applicable only to the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR and \fB-x\fR
\fBxustar\fR formats. When used in write or copy mode, \fBpax\fR includes
\fBatime\fR and \fImtime\fR extended header records for each file.
.RE

In addition to these keywords, if the \fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR format is specified,
any of the keywords and values, including implementation extensions, can be
used in \fB-o\fR option-arguments, in either of two modes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkeyword=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
When used in \fBwrite\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, these keyword/value pairs are
included at the beginning of the archive as \fBtypeflag g\fR global extended
header records. When used in \fBread\fR or \fBlist\fR mode, these keyword/value
pairs act as if they had been at the beginning of the archive as \fBtypeflag
g\fR global extended header records.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkeyword:=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
When used in \fBwrite\fR or \fBcopy\fR mode, these keyword/value pairs are
included as records at the beginning of a \fBtypeflag x\fR extended header for
each file. This is equivalent to the equal-sign form except that it creates no
\fBtypeflag g\fR global extended header records. When used in \fBread\fR or
\fBlist\fR mode, these keyword/value pairs act as if they were included as
records at the end of each extended header. Thus, they override any global or
file-specific extended header record keywords of the same names. For example,
in the command:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBpax -r -o "
gname:=mygroup,
" <archive\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

the group name is forced to a new value for all files read from the archive.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies one or more file characteristic options (privileges). The
\fIstring\fR option-argument must be a string specifying file characteristics
to be retained or discarded on extraction. The string consists of the
specification characters \fBa\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBm\fR, \fBo\fR, and \fBp\fR.
Multiple characteristics can be concatenated within the same string and
multiple \fB-p\fR options can be specified. The meaning of the specification
characters is as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Does not preserve file access times.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBe\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Preserves the user \fBID\fR, group \fBID\fR, file mode bits, access time, and
modification time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Does not preserve file modification times.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBo\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Preserves the user \fBID\fR and group \fBID\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Preserves the file mode bits.
.RE

In the preceding list, \fBpreserve\fR indicates that an attribute stored in the
archive is given to the extracted file, subject to the permissions of the
invoking process. Otherwise, the attribute is determined as part of the normal
file creation action. The access and modification times of the file is
preserved unless otherwise specified with the \fB-p\fR option or not stored in
the archive. All attributes that are not preserved are determined as part of
the normal file creation action.
.sp
If neither the \fBe\fR nor the \fBo\fR specification character is specified, or
the user \fBID\fR and group \fBID\fR are not preserved for any reason,
\fBpax\fR does not set the \fBsetuid\fR and \fBsetgid\fR bits of the file mode.
.sp
If the preservation of any of these items fails for any reason, \fBpax\fR
writes a diagnostic message to standard error. Failure to preserve these items
affects the final exit status, but does not cause the extracted file to be
deleted.
.sp
If file-characteristic letters in any of the \fIstring\fR option-arguments are
duplicated or conflict with each other, the ones given last take precedence.
For example, if \fB-p\fR \fBeme\fR is specified, file modification times are
preserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Reads an archive file from standard input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIreplstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Modifies file or archive member names named by \fIpattern\fR or \fIfile\fR
operands according to the substitution expression \fIreplstr\fR, which is based
on the \fBed\fR(1) \fBs\fR (substitution) utility, using the regular expression
syntax of \fBregex\fR(5). The concepts of ``address'' and ``line'' are
meaningless in the context of the \fBpax\fR command, and must not be supplied.
The format is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
-s /\fIold\fR/\fInew\fR/ [gp]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where, as in \fBed\fR, \fIold\fR is a basic regular expression and \fInew\fR
can contain an ampersand (\fB&\fR), a \e\fIn\fR backreference, where \fIn\fR is
a digit, or subexpression matching. The \fIold\fR string is also permitted to
contain newlines.
.sp
Any non-null character can be used as a delimiter (\fB/\fR shown here).
Multiple \fB-s\fR expressions can be specified. The expressions are applied in
the order specified, terminating with the first successful substitution. The
optional trailing \fBg\fR is as defined in the \fBed\fR command. The optional
trailing \fBp\fR causes successful substitutions to be written to standard
error. File or archive member names that substitute to the empty string are
ignored when reading and writing archives.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
When reading files from the file system, and if the user has the permissions
required by \fButime()\fR to do so, sets the access time of each file read to
the access time that it had before being read by \fBpax\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Ignores files that are older (having a less recent file modification time) than
a pre-existing file or archive member with the same name.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBread\fR mode\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
An archive member with the same name as a file in the file system is extracted
if the archive member is newer than the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwrite\fR mode\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
An archive file member with the same name as a file in the file system is
superseded if the file is newer than the archive member. If option \fB-a\fR is
also specified, this is accomplished by appending to the archive. Otherwise, it
is unspecified whether this is accomplished by actual replacement in the
archive or by appending to the archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcopy\fR mode\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The file in the destination hierarchy is replaced by the file in the source
hierarchy or by a link to the file in the source hierarchy if the file in the
source hierarchy is newer.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
In \fBlist\fR mode, produces a verbose table of contents (see \fBStandard
Output\fR). Otherwise, writes archive member path names and extended attributes
to standard error (see \fBStandard Error\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Writes files to the standard output in the specified archive format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR \fIformat\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies the output archive format. The \fBpax\fR utility recognizes the
following formats:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcpio\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The extended \fBcpio\fR(1) interchange format. See IEEE Std 1003.1-2001. The
default \fIblocksize\fR for this format for character special archive files is
\fB5120\fR. Implementations support all \fIblocksize\fR values less than or
equal to \fB32256\fR that are multiples of \fB512\fR.
.sp
This archive format allows files with \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to
\fB262143\fR to be stored in the archive. Files with \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs
greater than this value are archived with the \fBUID\fR and \fBGID\fR of
\fB60001\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpax\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fBpax\fR interchange format. See IEEE Std 1003.1-2001. The default
\fIblocksize\fR for this format for character special archive files is
\fB5120\fR. Implementations support all \fIblocksize\fR values less than or
equal to \fB32256\fR that are multiples of \fB512\fR.
.sp
Similar to \fBustar\fR. Also allows archiving and extracting files whose size
is greater than 8GB; whose \fBUID\fR, \fBGID\fR, \fIdevmajor\fR, or
\fIdevminor\fR values are greater than \fB2097151\fR; whose path (including
filename) is greater than \fB255\fR characters; or whose \fIlinkname\fR is
greater than \fB100\fR characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBustar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The extended \fBtar\fR(1) interchange format. See the IEEE 1003.1(1990)
specifications. The default \fIblocksize\fR for this format for character
special archive files is \fB10240\fR. Implementations support all
\fIblocksize\fR values less than or equal to \fB32256\fR that are multiples of
\fB512\fR.
.sp
This archive format allows files with \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs up to
\fB2097151\fR to be stored in the archive. Files with \fBUID\fRs and \fBGID\fRs
greater than this value are archived with the \fBUID\fR and \fBGID\fR of
\fB60001\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxustar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Similar to \fBustar\fR. Also allows archiving and extracting files whose size
is greater than 8GB; whose \fBUID\fR, \fBGID\fR, \fIdevmajor\fR, or
\fIdevminor\fR values are greater than \fB2097151\fR; whose path (including
filename) is greater than \fB255\fR characters; or whose \fIlinkname\fR is
greater than \fB100\fR characters. This option should not be used if the
archive is to be extracted by an archiver that cannot handle the larger values.
.RE

Any attempt to append to an archive file in a format different from the
existing archive format causes \fBpax\fR to exit immediately with a non-zero
exit status.
.sp
In \fBcopy\fR mode, if no \fB-x\fR format is specified, \fBpax\fR behaves as if
\fB-x\fR \fBpax\fR were specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
When traversing the file hierarchy specified by a path name, \fBpax\fR does not
descend into directories that have a different device ID (\fBst_dev\fR, see
\fBstat\fR(2)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-@\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Includes extended attributes in the archive. \fBpax\fR does not place extended
attributes in the archive by default.
.sp
When traversing the file hierarchy specified by a path name, \fBpax\fR descends
into the attribute directory for any file with extended attributes. Extended
attributes go into the archive as special files.
.sp
When this flag is used during file extraction, any extended attributes
associated with a file being extracted are also extracted. Extended attribute
files can only be extracted from an archive as part of a normal file extract.
Attempts to explicitly extract attribute records are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-/\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Includes extended system attributes in the archive. \fBpax\fR does not place
extended system attributes in the archive by default.
.sp
When traversing the file hierarchy specified by a path name, \fBpax\fR descends
into the attribute directory for any file with extended attributes. Extended
attributes go into the archive as special files. When this flag is used during
file extraction, any extended attributes associated with a file being extracted
are also extracted. Extended attribute files can only be extracted from an
archive as part of a normal file extract. Attempts to explicitly extract
attribute records are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Specifying more than one of the mutually-exclusive options \fB-H\fR and
\fB-L\fR is not considered an error. The last option specified determines the
behavior of the utility.
.sp
.LP
The options that operate on the names of files or archive members (\fB-c\fR,
\fB-i\fR, \fB-n\fR, \fB-s\fR, \fB-u\fR and \fB-v\fR) interact as follows.
.sp
.LP
In \fBread\fR mode, the archive members are selected based on the
user-specified \fIpattern\fR operands as modified by the \fB-c\fR, \fB-n\fR and
\fB-u\fR options. Then, any \fB-s\fR and \fB-i\fR options modify, in that
order, the names of the selected files. The \fB-v\fR option writes names
resulting from these modifications.
.sp
.LP
In \fBwrite\fR mode, the files are selected based on the user-specified path
names as modified by the \fB-n\fR and \fB-u\fR options. Then, any \fB-s\fR and
\fB-i\fR options modify, in that order, the names of these selected files. The
\fB-v\fR option writes names resulting from these modifications.
.sp
.LP
If both the \fB-u\fR and \fB-n\fR options are specified, \fBpax\fR does not
consider a file selected unless it is newer than the file to which it is
compared.
.SS "List Mode Format Specifications"
.sp
.LP
In \fBlist\fR mode with the \fB-o\fR \fBlistopt=\fR\fIformat\fR option, the
format argument is applied for each selected file. \fBpax\fR appends a NEWLINE
to the \fBlistopt\fR output for each selected file. The \fIformat\fR argument
is used as the format string with the following exceptions. (See
\fBprintf\fR(1) for the first five exceptions.)
.RS +4
.TP
1.
A \fBSPACE\fR character in the format string, in any context other than a
flag of a conversion specification, is treated as an ordinary character that is
copied to the output.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
A \fB\&' '\fR character in the format string is treated as a \fB\&' '\fR
character, not as a SPACE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
In addition to the escape sequences described in the \fBformats\fR(5) manual
page, (\fB\e\e\fR, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR, \fB\en\fR, \fB\er\fR,
\fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR), \fB\e\fR\fIddd\fR, where \fIddd\fR is a one-, two-, or
three-digit octal number, is written as a byte with the numeric value specified
by the octal number.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Output from the \fBd\fR or \fBu\fR conversion specifiers is not preceded or
followed with BLANKs not specified by the format operand.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Output from the \fBo\fR conversion specifier is not preceded with zeros that
are not specified by the format operand.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
The sequence (\fIkeyword\fR) can occur before a format conversion specifier.
The conversion argument is defined by the value of \fIkeyword\fR. The following
keywords are supported (see IEEE Std 1003.1-2001):
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Any of the Field Name entries in \fBustar Header Block\fR and \fBOctet-Oriented
cpio Archive Entry\fR. The implementation supports the \fBcpio\fR keywords
without the leading \fBc_\fR in addition to the form required by \fBValues for
cpio c_ mode Field\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Any keyword defined for the extended header in \fBpax Extended Header\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Any keyword provided as an implementation-defined extension within the extended
header defined in \fBpax Extended Header\fR.
.RE
For example, the sequence "\fB%(charset)s\fR" is the string value of the name
of the character set in the extended header.
.sp
The result of the keyword conversion argument is the value from the applicable
header field or extended header, without any trailing \fBNUL\fRs.
.sp
All keyword values used as conversion arguments are translated from the UTF -8
encoding to the character set appropriate for the local file system, user
database, and so on, as applicable.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
7.
An additional conversion specifier character, \fBT\fR, is used to specify
time formats. The \fBT\fR conversion specifier character can be preceded by the
sequence (\fIkeyword\fR=\fIsubformat\fR), where \fIsubformat\fR is a date
format as defined by \fIdate\fR operands. The default \fIkeyword\fR is
\fImtime\fR and the default \fIsubformat\fR is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
%b %e %H:%M %Y
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
8.
An additional conversion specifier character, \fBM\fR, is used to specify
the file mode string as defined in \fBls\fR Standard Output. If (\fIkeyword\fR)
is omitted, the \fBmode\fR keyword is used. For example, \fB%.1M\fR writes the
single character corresponding to the \fIentry type\fR field of the \fBls\fR
\fB-l\fR command.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
9.
An additional conversion specifier character, \fBD\fR, is used to specify
the device for block or special files, if applicable, in an
implementation-defined format. If not applicable, and (\fIkeyword\fR) is
specified, then this conversion is equivalent to \fB%\fR(\fIkeyword\fR)\fBu\fR.
If not applicable, and (\fIkeyword\fR) is omitted, then this conversion is
equivalent to SPACE.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
10.
An additional conversion specifier character, \fBF\fR, is used to specify a
path name. The \fBF\fR conversion character can be preceded by a sequence of
comma-separated keywords:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
(\fIkeyword\fR[,\fIkeyword\fR] ... )
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The values for all the keywords that are non-null are concatenated, each
separated by a '\fB/\fR'. The default is (\fBpath\fR) if the keyword \fBpath\fR
is defined. Otherwise, the default is (\fIprefix\fR,\fBname\fR).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
11.
An additional conversion specifier character, \fBL\fR, is used to specify a
symbolic link expansion. If the current file is a symbolic link, then \fB%L\fR
expands to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s -> %s", \fIvalue of keyword\fR, \fIcontents of link\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Otherwise, the \fB%L\fR conversion specification is the equivalent of \fB%F\fR.
.RE
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdirectory\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The destination directory path name for \fBcopy\fR mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A path name of a file to be copied or archived.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A pattern matching one or more path names of archive members. A pattern must
conform to the pattern matching notation found on the \fBfnmatch\fR(5) manual
page. The default, if no \fIpattern\fR is specified, is to select all members
in the archive.
.RE

.SH OUTPUT
.sp
.LP
Output formats are discussed below:
.SS "Standard Output"
.sp
.LP
In \fBwrite\fR mode, if \fB-f\fR is not specified, the standard output is the
archive formatted according to one of the formats described below. See \fB-x\fR
\fBformat\fR for a list of supported formats.
.sp
.LP
In \fBlist\fR mode, when the \fB-o\fR \fBlistopt=\fR\fIformat\fR option has
been specified, the selected archive members are written to standard output
using the format described above under \fBList Mode Format Specifications\fR.
In \fBlist\fR mode without the \fB-o\fR \fBlistopt=\fR\fIformat\fR option, the
table of contents of the selected archive members are written to standard
output using the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s\en", \fIpathname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If the \fB-v\fR option is specified in \fBlist\fR mode, the table of contents
of the selected archive members are written to standard output using the
following formats:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For path names representing hard links to previous members of the archive:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s == %s\en", <\fIls\fR -l \fIlisting, linkname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For all other path names:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s\en", <\fIls\fR -l \fIlisting\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where <\fIls\fR \fB-l\fR \fIlisting\fR> is the format specified by the \fBls\fR
command with the \fB-l\fR option. When writing path names in this format, it is
unspecified what is written for fields for which the underlying archive format
does not have the correct information, although the correct number of
blank-character-separated fields is written.
.RE
.sp
.LP
In \fBlist\fR mode, standard output is not buffered more than a line at a time.
.SS "Standard Error"
.sp
.LP
If \fB-v\fR is specified in \fBread\fR, \fBwrite\fR or \fBcopy\fR modes,
\fBpax\fR writes the path names it processes to the standard error output using
the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s\en", \fIpathname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
These path names are written as soon as processing is begun on the file or
archive member, and are flushed to standard error. The trailing NEWLINE
character, which is not buffered, is written when the file has been read or
written.
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-s\fR option is specified, and the replacement string has a trailing
\fBp\fR, substitutions are written to standard error in the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%s >> %s\en", <\fIoriginal pathname\fR>, <\fInew pathname\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In all operating modes of \fBpax\fR, optional messages of unspecified format
concerning the input archive format and volume number, the number of files,
blocks, volumes, and media parts as well as other diagnostic messages can be
written to standard error.
.sp
.LP
In all formats, for both standard output and standard error, it is unspecified
how non-printable characters in path names or link names are written.
.sp
.LP
When \fBpax\fR is in \fBread\fR mode or \fBlist\fR mode, using the \fB-x\fR
\fBpax\fR archive format, and a file name, link name, owner name, or any other
field in an extended header record cannot be translated from the \fBpax\fR
UTF-8 codeset format to the codeset and current locale of the implementation,
\fBpax\fR writes a diagnostic message to standard error, processes the file as
described for the \fB-o\fR \fBinvalid=\fRoption, and then processes the next
file in the archive.
.SS "Output Files"
.sp
.LP
In \fBread\fR mode, the extracted output files are of the archived file type.
In \fBcopy\fR mode, the copied output files are the type of the file being
copied . In either mode, existing files in the destination hierarchy are
overwritten only when all permission (\fB-p\fR), modification time (\fB-u\fR),
and invalid-value (\fB-o\fR \fBinvalid=\fR) tests allow it. In \fBwrite\fR
mode, the output file named by the \fB-f\fR option-argument is a file formatted
according to one of the specifications in IEEE Std 1003.1-2001.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If \fBpax\fR cannot create a file or a link when reading an archive, or cannot
find a file when writing an archive, or cannot preserve the user \fBID\fR,
group \fBID\fR, or file mode when the \fB-p\fR option is specified, a
diagnostic message is written to standard error and a non-zero exit status is
returned, but processing continues. In the case where \fBpax\fR cannot create a
link to a file, \fBpax\fR does not, by default, create a second copy of the
file.
.sp
.LP
If the extraction of a file from an archive is prematurely terminated by a
signal or error, \fBpax\fR can have only partially extracted the file or, if
the \fB-n\fR option was not specified, can have extracted a file of the same
name as that specified by the user, but which is not the file the user wanted.
Additionally, the file modes of extracted directories can have additional bits
from the read, write, execute mask set as well as incorrect modification and
access times.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fB-p\fR (privileges) option was invented to reconcile differences between
historical \fBtar\fR(1) and \fBcpio\fR(1) implementations. In particular, the
two utilities use \fB-m\fR in diametrically opposed ways. The \fB-p\fR option
also provides a consistent means of extending the ways in which future file
attributes can be addressed, such as for enhanced security systems or
high-performance files. Although it can seem complex, there are really two
modes that are most commonly used:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fBe\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Preserve everything. This would be used by the historical superuser, someone
with all the appropriate privileges, to preserve all aspects of the files as
they are recorded in the archive. The \fBe\fR flag is the sum of \fBo\fR and
\fBp\fR, and other implementation-dependent attributes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Preserve the file mode bits. This would be used by the user with regular
privileges who wished to preserve aspects of the file other than the ownership.
The file times are preserved by default, but two other flags are offered to
disable these and use the time of extraction.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The one path name per line format of standard input precludes path names
containing newlines. Although such path names violate the portable filename
guidelines, they can exist and their presence can inhibit usage of \fBpax\fR
within shell scripts. This problem is inherited from historical archive
programs. The problem can be avoided by listing file name arguments on the
command line instead of on standard input.
.sp
.LP
It is almost certain that appropriate privileges are required for \fBpax\fR to
accomplish parts of this. Specifically, creating files of type block special or
character special, restoring file access times unless the files are owned by
the user (the \fB-t\fR option), or preserving file owner, group, and mode (the
\fB-p\fR option) all probably require appropriate privileges.
.sp
.LP
In \fBread\fR mode, implementations are permitted to overwrite files when the
archive has multiple members with the same name. This can fail if permissions
on the first version of the file do not permit it to be overwritten.
.sp
.LP
When using the \fB-x\fR \fBxustar\fR and \fB-x\fR \fB-pax\fR archive formats,
if the underlying file system reports that the file being archived contains
holes, the Solaris \fBpax\fR utility records the presence of holes in an
extended header record when the file is archived. If this extended header
record is associated with a file in the archive, those holes are recreated
whenever that file is extracted from the archive. See the \fBSEEK_DATA\fR and
\fBSEEK_HOLE\fR whence values in \fBlseek\fR(2). In all other cases, any
\fBNUL\fR (\fB\e0\fR) characters found in the archive is written to the file
when it is extracted.
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBpax\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SS "Standard Input"
.sp
.LP
In \fBwrite\fR mode, the standard input is used only if no \fIfile\fR operands
are specified. It is a text file containing a list of path names, one per line,
without leading or trailing blanks. In \fBlist\fR and \fBread\fR modes, if
\fB-f\fR is not specified, the standard input is an archive file. Otherwise,
the standard input is not used.
.SS "Input Files"
.sp
.LP
The input file named by the \fIarchive\fR option-argument, or standard input
when the archive is read from there, is a file formatted according to one of
the formats described below. See \fBExtended Description\fR. The file
\fB/dev/tty\fR is used to write prompts and read responses.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCopying the Contents of the Current Directory
.sp
.LP
The following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpax -w -f /dev/rmt/1m .\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
copies the contents of the current directory to tape drive 1, medium density.
This assumes historical System V device naming procedures. The historical
\fBBSD\fR device name would be \fB/dev/rmt9\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRCopying the Directory Hierarchy
.sp
.LP
The following commands:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBmkdir newdir\fR
example% \fBpax -rw olddir newdir\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
copy the \fBolddir\fR directory hierarchy to \fBnewdir\fR.

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRReading an Archive Extracted Relative to the Current Directory
.sp
.LP
The following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBpax -r -s ',^//*usr//*,,' -f a.pax\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
reads the archive \fBa.pax\fR, with all files rooted in \fB/usr\fR in the
archive extracted relative to the current directory.

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fROverriding the Default Output Description
.sp
.LP
Using the option:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB-o listopt="%M %(atime)T %(size)D %(name)s"\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
overrides the default output description in \fBStandard Output\fR and instead
writes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
-rw-rw- - - Jan 12 15:53 2003 1492 /usr/foo/bar
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Using the options:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB-o listopt='%L\et%(size)D\en%.7' \e
-o listopt='(name)s\en%(atime)T\en%T'\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
overrides the default output description in standard output and instead writes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
usr/foo/bar -> /tmp             1492
/usr/foo
Jan 12 15:53 1991
Jan 31 15:53 2003
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBpax\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_COLLATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Determine the locale for the behaviour of ranges, equivalence classes, and
multi-character collating elements used in the pattern matching expressions for
the \fIpattern\fR operand, the basic regular expression for the \fB-s\fR
option, and the extended regular expression defined for the \fByesexpr\fR
locale keyword in the \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR category.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTMPDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Determine the path name that provides part of the default global extended
header record file, as described for the \fB-o\fR \fBglobexthdr=\fR keyword as
described in the OPTIONS section.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTZ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Determine the timezone used to calculate date and time strings when the
\fB-v\fR option is specified. If \fBTZ\fR is unset or null, an unspecified
default timezone is used.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All files were processed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.SS "\fBpax\fR Interchange Format"
.sp
.LP
A \fBpax\fR archive tape or file produced in the \fB-xpax\fR format contains a
series of blocks. The physical layout of the archive is identical to the
\fBustar\fR format described in \fBustar Interchange Format\fR. Each file
archived is represented by the following sequence:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional header block with extended header records. This header block is of
the form 27403 with a \fItypeflag\fR value of \fBx\fR or \fBg\fR. The extended
header records is included as the data for this header block.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A header block that describes the file. Any fields in the preceding optional
extended header overrides the associated fields in this header block for this
file.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Zero or more blocks that contain the contents of the file.
.RE
.sp
.LP
At the end of the archive file there are two 512-byte blocks filled with binary
zeroes, interpreted as an end-of-archive indicator.
.sp
.LP
The following is a schematic of an example archive with global extended header
records and two actual files in pax format archive. In the example, the second
file in the archive has no extended header preceding it, presumably because it
has no need for extended attributes.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c
l l .
Description	Block
Global Extended Header	ustar Header [\fItypeflag\fR=g]
	Global Extended Header Data
File 1: Extended Header is included	ustar Header [\fItypeflag\fR=x]
	Extended Header Data
	[\fItypeflag\fR=0]
	ustar Header Data for File 1
File 2: No Extended Header is included	ustar Header [\fItypeflag\fR=0]
	Data for File2
End of Archive Indicator	Block of binary zeros
	Block of binary zeros
.TE

.SS "\fBpax\fR Header Block"
.sp
.LP
The \fBpax\fR header block is identical to the \fBustar\fR header block
described in \fBustar Interchange Format\fR except that two additional
\fItypeflag\fR values are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Represents global extended header records for the following files in the
archive. The format of these extended header records are as described in \fBpax
Extended Header\fR. Each value affects all subsequent files that do not
override that value in their own extended header record and until another
global extended header record is reached that provides another value for the
same field. The \fItypeflag\fR \fBg\fR global headers should not be used with
interchange media that could suffer partial data loss in transporting the
archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Represents extended header records for the following file in the archive (which
has its own \fBustar\fR header block). The format of these extended header
records is as described in \fBpax Extended Header\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For both of these types, the \fIsize\fR field is the size of the extended
header records in octets. The other fields in the header block are not
meaningful to this version of \fBpax\fR. However, if this archive is read by
\fBpax\fR conforming to a previous version of \fIISO POSIX-2:1993 Standard\fR,
the header block fields are used to create a regular file that contains the
extended header records as data. Therefore, header block field values should be
selected to provide reasonable file access to this regular file.
.sp
.LP
A further difference from the \fBustar\fR header block is that data blocks for
files of \fItypeflag\fR \fB1\fR (the digit one) (hard link) might be included,
which means that the \fIsize\fR field can be greater than zero. Archives
created by \fBpax\fR \fB-o\fR \fBlinkdata\fR includes these data blocks with
the hard links.
.SS "\fBpax\fR Extended Header"
.sp
.LP
A \fBpax\fR extended header contains values that are inappropriate for the
\fBustar\fR header block because of limitations in that format: fields
requiring a character encoding other than that described in the \fIISO/IEC 646:
1991 standard\fR, fields representing file attributes not described in the
\fBustar\fR header, and fields whose format or length do not fit the
requirements of the \fBustar\fR header. The values in an extended header add
attributes to the specified file or files or override values in the specified
header blocks, as indicated in the following list of keywords. See the
description of the \fItypeflag\fR \fBg\fR header block.
.sp
.LP
An extended header consists of one or more records, each constructed as
follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"%d %s=%s\en", \fIlength\fR, \fIkeyword\fR, \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The extended header records are encoded according to the\fI ISO/IEC 10646-1:
2000 standard\fR (UTF-8). \fIlength\fR, \fBBLANK\fR, equals sign (\fB=\fR), and
NEWLINE are limited to the portable character set, as encoded in UTF-8.
\fIkeyword\fR and \fIvalue\fR can be any UTF-8 characters. \fIlength\fR is the
decimal length of the extended header record in octets, including the trailing
NEWLINE.
.sp
.LP
\fIkeyword\fR is one of the entries from the following list or a keyword
provided as an implementation extension. Keywords consisting entirely of
lowercase letters, digits, and periods are reserved for future standardization.
A keyword does not include an equals sign.
.sp
.LP
In the following list, the notation of \fBfile(s)\fR or \fBblock(s)\fR are used
to acknowledge that a keyword affects the specified single file after a
\fItypeflag\fR \fBx\fR extended header, but possibly multiple files after
\fItypeflag\fR \fBg\fR. Any requirements in the list for \fBpax\fR to include a
record when in write or copy mode applies only when such a record has not
already been provided through the use of the \fB-o\fR option. When used in copy
mode, \fBpax\fR behaves as if an archive had been created with applicable
extended header records and then extracted.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBatime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The file access time for the specified files, equivalent to the value of the
\fBst_atime\fR member of the stat structure for a file, as described by the
\fBstat\fR(2) function. The access time (\fBatime\fR) is restored if the
process has the appropriate privilege required to do so. The format of the
\fIvalue\fR is as described in \fBpax Extended Header File Times\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcharset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The name of the character set used to encode the data in the specified files.
The entries in the following table are defined to refer to known standards;
additional names can be agreed on between the originator and recipient.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fIvalue\fR	Formal Standard
ISO-IR 646 1990	ISO/IEC646:1990
ISO-IR 8859 1 1998	ISO/IEC8859-1:1998
ISO-IR 8859 2 1999	ISO/IEC 8859-2:1999
ISO-IR 8859 3 1999	ISO/IEC 8859-3:1999
ISO-IR 8859 4 1999	ISO/IEC8859-4:1998
ISO-IR 8859 5 1999	ISO/IEC8859-5-1999
ISO-IR 8859 6 1999	ISO/IEC8859-6-1999
ISO-IR 8859 7 1987	ISO/IEC8859-7:1987
ISO-IR 8859 8 1999	ISO/IEC8859-8:1999
ISO-IR 8859 9 1999	ISO/IEC8859-9:1999
ISO-IR 8859 10 1998	ISO/IEC8859-10:1999
ISO-IR 8859 13 1998	ISO/IEC8859-13:1998
ISO-IR 8859 14 1998	ISO/IEC8859-14:1998
ISO-IR 8859 15 1999	ISO/IEC8859-15:1999
ISO-IR 10646 2000	ISO/IEC 10646:2000
ISO-IR 10646 2000 UTF-8	ISO/IEC 10646,UTF-8 encoding
BINARY	None
.TE

The encoding is included in an extended header for information only; when
\fBpax\fR is used as described in \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200\fIx\fR\fR, it does not
translate the file data into any other encoding. The BINARY entry indicates
unencoded binary data. When used in write or copy mode, it is
implementation-defined whether \fBpax\fR includes a \fBcharset\fR extended
header record for a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcomment\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A series of characters used as a comment. All characters in the \fIvalue\fR
field are ignored by \fBpax\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The group ID of the group that owns the file, expressed as a decimal number
using digits from the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991 standard\fR. This record overrides
the \fBgid\fR field in the specified header blocks. When used in write or copy
mode, \fBpax\fR includes a \fBgid\fR extended header record for each file whose
group ID is greater than 2097151 (octal \fB7777777\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIgname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The group of the files, formatted as a group name in the group database. This
record overrides the \fBgid\fR and \fIgname\fR fields in the specified header
blocks, and any \fBgid\fR extended header record. When used in read, copy, or
list mode, \fBpax\fR translates the name from the UTF-8 encoding in the header
record to the character set appropriate for the group database on the receiving
system. If any of the UTF-8 characters cannot be translated, and if the \fB-o
invalid=UTF-8\fR option is not specified, the results are
implementation-defined. When used in write or copy mode, \fBpax\fR includes a
\fIgname\fR extended header record for each file whose group name cannot be
represented entirely with the letters and digits of the portable character set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlinkpath\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The pathname of a link being created to another file, of any type, previously
archived. This record overrides the \fIlinkname\fR field in the specified
\fBustar\fR header blocks. The specified \fBustar\fR header block determines
the type of link created. If \fItypeflag\fR of the specified header block is 1,
it is a hard link. If \fItypeflag\fR is 2, it is a symbolic link and the
\fBlinkpath\fR value is the contents of the symbolic link. \fBpax\fR translates
the name of the link (contents of the symbolic link) from the UTF-8 encoding to
the character set appropriate for the local file system. When used in write or
copy mode, \fBpax\fR includes a \fBlinkpath\fR extended header record for each
link whose pathname cannot be represented entirely with the members of the
portable character set other than \fBNULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The pathname of a link being created to another file, of any type, previously
archived. This record overrides the \fIlinkname\fR field in the specified
\fBustar\fR header blocks. The specified \fBustar\fR header block determines
the type of link created. If \fItypeflag\fR of the specified header block is
\fB1\fR, it is a hard link. If \fItypeflag\fR is \fB2\fR, it is a symbolic link
and the \fBlinkpath\fR value is the contents of the symbolic link. \fBpax\fR
translates the name of the link (contents of the symbolic link) from the UTF-8
encoding to the character set appropriate for the local file system. When used
in write or copy mode, \fBpax\fR includes a \fBlinkpath\fR extended header
record for each link whose pathname cannot be represented entirely with the
members of the portable character set other than \fBNULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpath\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The pathname of the specified files. This record overrides the name and
\fIprefix\fR fields in the specified header blocks. \fBpax\fR translates the
pathname of the file from the UTF-8 encoding to the character set appropriate
for the local file system. When used in write or copy mode, \fBpax\fR includes
a path extended header record for each file whose pathname cannot be
represented entirely with the members of the portable character set other than
\fBNULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrealtime.\fR\fIany\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The keywords prefixed by \fBrealtime\fR are reserved for future
standardization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsecurity.\fR\fIany\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The keywords prefixed by \fBsecurity\fR are reserved for future
standardization.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The size of the file in octets, expressed as a decimal number using digits from
the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991 standard\fR. This record overrides the \fIsize\fR
field in the specified header blocks. When used in write or copy mode,
\fBpax\fR includes a size extended header record for each file with a
\fIsize\fR value greater than \fB8589934591\fR (octal \fB77777777777\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The user \fBID\fR of the file owner, expressed as a decimal number using digits
from the I\fISO/IEC 646:1991\fR standard. This record overrides the \fBuid\fR
field in the following header block(s). When used in write or copy mode,
\fBpax\fR includes a \fBuid\fR extended header record for each file whose owner
ID is greater than \fB2097151 (octal 7777777)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The owner of the specified files, formatted as a user name in the user
database. This record overrides the \fIuid\fR and \fIuname\fR fields in the
specified header blocks, and any \fIuid\fR extended header record. When used in
read, copy, or list mode, \fBpax\fR translates the name from the UTF-8 encoding
in the header record to the character set appropriate for the user database on
the receiving system. If any of the UTF-8 characters cannot be translated, and
if the \fB-o invalid= UTF-8\fR option is not specified, the results are
implementation-defined. When used in write or copy mode, \fBpax\fR includes a
\fIuname\fR extended header record for each file whose user name cannot be
represented entirely with the letters and digits of the portable character set.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the \fBvalue\fR field is zero length, it deletes any header block field,
previously entered extended header value, or global extended header value of
the same name.
.sp
.LP
If a keyword in an extended header record (or in an \fB-o\fR option-argument)
overrides or deletes a corresponding field in the \fBustar\fR header block,
\fBpax\fR ignores the contents of that header block field.
.sp
.LP
Unlike the \fBustar\fR header block fields, \fBNULLs\fR does not delimit
values; all characters within the value field are considered data for the
field.
.SS "\fBpax\fR Extended Header Keyword Precedence"
.sp
.LP
This section describes the precedence in which the various header records and
fields and command line options are selected to apply to a file in the archive.
When \fBpax\fR is used in read or list modes, it determines a file attribute in
the following sequence:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
If \fB-o delete\fR\fB=\fR\fIkeyword-prefix\fR is used, the affected
attributes is determined from step 7, if applicable, or ignored otherwise.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
If \fB-o\fR \fIkeyword:=\fR is used, the affected attributes is ignored.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
If \fB-o\fR \fIkeyword:=value\fR is used, the affected attribute is assigned
the value.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
If there is a \fItypeflag\fR \fBx\fR extended header record, the affected
attribute is assigned the value. When extended header records conflict, the
last one given in the header takes precedence.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
If \fB-o\fR \fIkeyword=value\fR is used, the affected attribute is assigned
the value.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
If there is a \fItypeflag g\fR global extended header record, the affected
attribute is assigned the value. When global extended header records conflict,
the last one given in the global header takes precedence.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
7.
Otherwise, the attribute is determined from the \fBustar\fR header block.
.RE
.SS "\fBpax\fR Extended Header File Times"
.sp
.LP
\fBpax\fR writes an \fImtime\fR record for each file in write or copy modes if
the file's modification time cannot be represented exactly in the \fBustar\fR
header logical record described in \fBustar\fR Interchange Format. This can
occur if the time is out of \fBustar\fR range, or if the file system of the
underlying implementation supports non-integer time granularities and the time
is not an integer. All of these time records are formatted as a decimal
representation of the time in seconds since the Epoch. If a period (\fB\&.\fR)
decimal point character is present, the digits to the right of the point
represents the units of a sub-second timing granularity, where the first digit
is tenths of a second and each subsequent digit is a tenth of the previous
digit. In read or copy mode, \fBpax\fR truncates the time of a file to the
greatest value that is not greater than the input header file time. In write or
copy mode, \fBpax\fR outputs a time exactly if it can be represented exactly as
a decimal number, and otherwise generates only enough digits so that the same
time is recovered if the file is extracted on a system whose underlying
implementation supports the same time granularity.
.SS "\fBustar\fR Interchange Format"
.sp
.LP
A \fBustar\fR archive tape or file contains a series of logical records. Each
logical record is a fixed-size logical record of 512 octets. Although this
format can be thought of as being stored on 9-track industry-standard 12.7mm
(0.5 in) magnetic tape, other types of transportable media are not excluded.
Each file archived is represented by a header logical record that describes the
file, followed by zero or more logical records that give the contents of the
file. At the end of the archive file there are two 512-octet logical records
filled with binary zeros, interpreted as an end-of-archive indicator.
.sp
.LP
The logical records can be grouped for physical I/O operations, as described
under the \fB-b\fR\fIblocksize\fR and \fB-x\fR \fBustar\fR options. Each group
of logical records can be written with a single operation equivalent to the
\fBwrite\fR(2) function. On magnetic tape, the result of this write is a single
tape physical block. The last physical block always is the full size, so
logical records after the two zero logical records can contain undefined data.
.sp
.LP
The header logical record is structured as shown in the following table. All
lengths and offsets are in decimal.
.sp
\fBTable 1 \fR\fBustar\fR Header Block
.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
Field Name	Octet Offset	Length (in Octets)
\fIname\fR	\fB0\fR	100
\fImode\fR	100	8
\fIuid\fR	108	8
\fIgid\fR	116	8
\fIsize\fR	124	12
\fImtime\fR	136	12
\fIchksum\fR	148	8
\fItypeflag\fR	156	1
\fIlinkname\fR	157	100
\fImagic\fR	257	6
\fIversion\fR	263	2
\fIuname\fR	265	32
\fIgname\fR	297	32
\fIdevmajor\fR	329	8
\fIdevminor\fR	337	8
\fIprefix\fR	345	155
.TE

.sp
.LP
All characters in the header logical record is represented in the coded
character set of the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard. For maximum portability
between implementations, names should be selected from characters represented
by the portable filename character set as octets with the most significant bit
zero. If an implementation supports the use of characters outside of slash and
the portable filename character set in names for files, users, and groups, one
or more implementation-defined encodings of these characters are provided for
interchange purposes.
.sp
.LP
\fBpax\fR never creates filenames on the local system that cannot be accessed
using the procedures described in \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR. If a filename is
found on the medium that would create an invalid filename, it is
implementation-defined whether the data from the file is stored on the file
hierarchy and under what name it is stored. \fBpax\fR can choose to ignore
these files as long as it produces an error indicating that the file is being
ignored. Each field within the header logical record is contiguous; that is,
there is no padding used.
.sp
.LP
Each field within the header logical record is contiguous. There is no padding
used. Each character on the archive medium is stored contiguously.
.sp
.LP
The fields \fImagic\fR, \fIuname\fR and \fIgname\fR are character strings, each
of which is terminated by a NULL character. The fields \fIname\fR,
\fIlinkname\fR, and \fIprefix\fR are NULL-terminated character strings except
when all characters in the array contain non-NULL characters including the last
character. The \fIversion\fR field is two octets containing the characters
\fB00\fR (zero-zero) The \fItypeflag\fR contains a single character. All other
fields are leading zero-filled octal numbers using digits from the \fIISO/IEC
646:1991\fR standard IRV. Each numeric field is terminated by one or more SPACE
of NULL characters.
.sp
.LP
Each character on the archive medium is stored contiguously. The fields
\fImagic\fR, \fIuname\fR, and \fIgname\fR are character strings each terminated
by a \fBNULL\fR character.
.sp
.LP
\fIname\fR, \fIlinkname\fR, and \fIprefix\fR are NULL-terminated character
strings except when all characters in the array contain non-NULL characters
including the last character. The \fIversion\fR field is two octets containing
the characters \fB00\fR (zero-zero). The \fItypeflag\fR contains a single
character. All other fields are leading zero-filled octal numbers using digits
from the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard IRV. Each numeric field is terminated
by one or more spaces or NULL characters.
.sp
.LP
The \fIname\fR and the \fIprefix\fR fields produce the pathname of the file. A
new pathname is formed, if \fIprefix\fR is not an empty string (its first
character is not \fBNULL\fR), by concatenating \fIprefix\fR (up to the first
\fBNULL\fR character), a slash character, and name; otherwise, name is used
alone. In either case, name is terminated at the first \fBNULL\fR character. If
\fIprefix\fR begins with a \fBNULL\fR character, it is ignored. In this manner,
pathnames of at most 256 characters can be supported. If a pathname does not
fit in the space provided, \fBpax\fR notifies the user of the error, and does
not store any part of the file-header or data-on the medium.
.sp
.LP
The \fIlinkname\fR field does not use the \fIprefix\fR to produce a pathname.
As such, a \fIlinkname\fR is limited to 100 characters. If the name does not
fit in the space provided, \fBpax\fR notifies the user of the error, and does
not attempt to store the link on the medium. The \fImode\fR field provides 12
bits encoded in the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard octal digit
representation. The encoded bits represent the following values in the
\fBustar\fR \fImode\fR field:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
Bit Value	IEE Std 1003.1-2001 Bit	Description
04000	S_ISUID	Set UID on execution
02000	S_ISGID	Set GID on exectution
01000	\fIreserved\fR	Reserved for future standardization
00400	S_IRUSR	Read permission for file owner class
00200	S_IWUSR	Write permission for file owner class
00100	S_IXUSR	T{
Execute/search permission for file owner class
T}
00040	S_IRGRP	Read permission for file group class
00020	S_IWGRP	Write permission for file group class
00010	S_IXGRP	T{
Execute/search permission for file group class
T}
00004	S_IROTH	Read permission for file other class
00002	S_IWOTH	Write permission for file other class
00001	S_IXOTH	T{
Execute/search permission for file other class
T}
.TE

.sp
.LP
When appropriate privilege is required to set one of these mode bits, and the
user restoring the files from the archive does not have the appropriate
privilege, the mode bits for which the user does not have appropriate privilege
are ignored. Some of the mode bits in the archive format are not mentioned
elsewhere in volume \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR. If the implementation does not
support those bits, they can be ignored.
.sp
.LP
The \fIuid\fR and \fIgid\fR fields are the user and group ID of the owner and
group of the file, respectively.
.sp
.LP
The \fIsize\fR field is the size of the file in octets. If the \fItypeflag\fR
field is set to specify a file to be of type \fB1\fR (a link) or \fI2\fR (a
symbolic link), the \fIsize\fR field is specified as zero. If the
\fItypeflag\fR field is set to specify a file of type 5 (directory), the
\fIsize\fR field is interpreted as described under the definition of that
record type. No data logical records are stored for types 1, 2, or 5. If the
\fItypeflag\fR field is set to 3 (character special file), 4 (block special
file), or 6 (FIFO), the meaning of the \fIsize\fR field is unspecified by
volume \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR, and no data logical records is stored on the
medium. Additionally, for type 6, the \fIsize\fR field is ignored when reading.
If the \fItypeflag\fR field is set to any other value, the number of logical
records written following the header is (\fIsize\fR+511)/512, ignoring any
fraction in the result of the division.
.sp
.LP
The \fImtime\fR field is the modification time of the file at the time it was
archived. It is the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard representation of the
octal value of the modification time obtained from the \fBstat()\fR function.
.sp
.LP
The \fIchksum\fR field is the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard IRV
representation of the octal value of the simple sum of all octets in the header
logical record. Each octet in the header is treated as an unsigned value. These
values are added to an unsigned integer, initialized to zero, the precision of
which is not less than 17 bits. When calculating the checksum, the \fIchksum\fR
field is treated as if it were all spaces.
.sp
.LP
The \fItypeflag\fR field specifies the type of file archived. If a particular
implementation does not recognize the type, or the user does not have
appropriate privilege to create that type, the file is extracted as if it were
a regular file if the file type is defined to have a meaning for the \fIsize\fR
field that could cause data logical records to be written on the medium. If
conversion to a regular file occurs, \fBpax\fR produces an error indicating
that the conversion took place. All of the \fItypeflag\fR fields are coded in
the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard IRV:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Represents a regular file. For backward compatibility, a \fItypeflag\fR value
of binary zero ('\e0') should be recognized as meaning a regular file when
extracting files from the archive. Archives written with this version of the
archive file format create regular files with a \fItypeflag\fR value of the
\fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard IRV '0'.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Represents a file linked to another file, of any type, previously archived.
Such files are identified by each file having the same device and file serial
number. The linked-to name is specified in the \fIlinkname\fR field with a
\fBNULL\fR-character terminator if it is less than 100 octets in length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Represents a symbolic link. The contents of the symbolic link are stored in the
\fIlinkname\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3,4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Represents character special files and block special files respectively. In
this case the \fIdevmajor\fR and \fIdevminor\fR fields contain information
defining the device, the format of which is unspecified by volume \fIIEEE Std
1003.1-200x\fR. Implementations can map the device specifications to their own
local specification or can ignore the entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB5\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specifies a directory or subdirectory. On systems where disk allocation is
performed on a directory basis, the \fIsize\fR field contain the maximum number
of octets (which can be rounded to the nearest disk block allocation unit) that
the directory can hold. A \fIsize\fR field of zero indicates no such limiting.
Systems that do not support limiting in this manner should ignore the
\fIsize\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB6\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specifies a FIFO special file. The archiving of a FIFO file archives the
existence of this file and not its contents.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB7\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Reserved to represent a file to which an implementation has associated some
high- performance attribute. Implementations without such extensions should
treat this file as a regular file (type 0).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The letters \fBA\fR through \fBZ\fR inclusive are reserved for custom
implementations. All other values are reserved for future versions of \fIIEEE
Std 1003.1-200x\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSUN.devmajor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A Solaris extension to \fBpax\fR extended header keywords. Specifies the major
device number of the file.
.sp
When used in write or copy mode and the \fBxustar\fR or \fBpax\fR format (see
\fB-x format\fR) was specified, \fBpax\fR includes a \fBSUN.devmajor\fR
extended header record for each file whose major device number is too large to
fit in 8 octets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSUN.devminor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A Solaris extension to \fBpax\fR extended header keywords. Specifies the minor
device number of the file.
.sp
When used in write or copy mode and the \fBxustar\fR or \fBpax\fR format (see
\fB-x format\fR) is specified, \fBpax\fR includes a \fBSUN.\fR\fIdevminor\fR
extended header record for each file whose minor device number is too large to
fit in 8 octets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSUN.holesdata\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A Solaris extension to \fBpax\fR extended header keywords. Specifies the data
and hole pairs for a sparse file.
.sp
In write or copy modes and when the \fBxustar\fR or \fBpax\fR format (see \fB-x
format\fR) is specified, \fBpax\fR includes a \fBSUN.holesdate\fR extended
header record if the underlying file system supports the detection of files
with holes (see \fBfpathconf\fR(2)) and reports that there is at least one hole
in the file being archived. \fIvalue\fR consists of two or more consecutive
entries of the following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBSPACE\fR\fIdata_offset\fR\fBSPACE\fR\fIhole_offset\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

where the data and hole offsets are the long values returned by passing
\fBSEEK_DATA\fR and \fBSEEK_HOLE\fR to \fBlseek\fR(2), respectively. For
example, the following entry is an example of the \fBSUN.holesdata\fR entry in
the extended header for a file with data offsets at bytes 0, 24576, and 49152,
and hole offsets at bytes 8192, 32768, and 49159: 49 \fBSUN.holesdata= 0 8192
24576 32768 49152 49159\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
49 SUN.holesdata= 0 8192 24576 32768 49152 49159
.fi
.in -2
.sp

When extracting a file from an archive in read or copy modes, if a
\fBSUN.holesdata =\fR pair is found in the extended header for the file, then
the file is restored with the holes identified using this data. For example,
for the \fBSUN.holesdata\fR provided in the example above, bytes from 0 to 8192
are restored as data, a hole is created up to the next data position (24576),
bytes 24576 to 32768 is restored as data, and so forth.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A Solaris custom \fBtypeflag\fR implementation which specifies an \fBxustar\fR
format (see \fB-x format\fR) extended header. The \fBtypeflag 'x'\fR extended
header is treated as a \fBustar typeflag 'x'\fR extended header.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A Solaris custom \fBtypeflag\fR implementation which specifies an extended
attributes header. See \fBfsattr\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.LP
Attempts to archive a socket using \fBustar\fR interchange format produce a
diagnostic message. Handling of other file types is implementation-defined.
.sp
.LP
The \fImagic\fR field is the specification that this archive was output in this
archive format. If this field contains \fBustar\fR (the five characters from
the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard IRV shown followed by \fBNULL\fR), the
\fIuname\fR and \fIgname\fR fields contain the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR standard
IRV representation of the owner and group of the file, respectively (truncated
to fit, if necessary). When the file is restored by a privileged,
protection-preserving version of the utility, the user and group databases are
scanned for these names. If found, the user and group IDs contained within
these files are used rather than the values contained within the \fIuid\fR and
\fBgid\fR fields.
.SS "\fBcpio\fR Interchange Format"
.sp
.LP
The octet-oriented \fBcpio\fR archive format are a series of entries, each
comprising a header that describes the file, name of the file, and contents of
the file.
.sp
.LP
An archive can be recorded as a series of fixed-size blocks of octets. This
blocking is be used only to make physical I/O more efficient. The last group of
blocks are always at the full size.
.sp
.LP
For the octet-oriented \fBcpio\fR archive format, the individual entry
information are in the order indicated and described by the following table:
Octet-Oriented \fBcpio\fR Archive Entry. See the \fBcpio.h\fR header for
additional details.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
Header Field Name	Length (in Octets)	Interpreted as
\fIc_magic\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_dev\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_ino\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_mode\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_uid\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_gid\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_nlink\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_rdev\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_mtime\fR	11	Octal number
\fIc_namesize\fR	6	Octal number
\fIc_filesize\fR	11	Octal number
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
Filename Field Name	Length	Interpreted as
\fIc_name\fR	\fIc_namesize\fR	Pathname string
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
Filename Field Name	Length	Interpreted as
\fIc_filedata\fR	\fIc_filesize\fR	Data
.TE

.SS "\fBcpio\fR Header"
.sp
.LP
For each file in the archive, a header as defined previously written. The
information in the header fields is written as streams of the \fIISO/IEC 646:
1991\fR standard characters interpreted as octal numbers. The octal numbers are
extended to the necessary length by appending the \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR
standard IRV zeros at the most-significant-digit end of the number. The result
is written to the most-significant digit of the stream of octets first. The
fields are interpreted as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_magic\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Identifies the archive as being a transportable archive by containing the
identifying value \fB"070707"\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_dev,c_ino\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains values that uniquely identify the file within the archive (that is, no
files contain the same pair of \fIc_dev\fR and \fIc_ino\fR values unless they
are links to the same file). The values are determined in an unspecified
manner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_mode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains the file type and access permissions as defined in the following
table.
.sp
Directories, FIFOs, symbolic links, and regular files are supported on a system
conforming to volume \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR; additional values defined
previously are reserved for compatibility with existing systems. Additional
file types can be supported. Such files should not be written to archives
intended to be transported to other systems.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
File Permissions Name	Value	Indicates
\fBC_IRUSR\fR	\fB000400\fR	by owner
\fBC_IWUSR\fR	\fB000200\fR	by owner
\fBC_IXUSR\fR	\fB000100\fR	by owner
\fBC_IRGRP\fR	\fB000040\fR	by group
\fBCW_IWFGP\fR	\fB000020\fR	by group
\fBCW_IXGRP\fR	\fB000010\fR	by group
\fBCW_IROTH\fR	\fB000004\fR	by others
\fBCW_IWOTH\fR	\fB000002\fR	by others
\fBCW_IXOTH\fR	\fB000001\fR	by others
\fBCW_ISUID\fR	\fB004000\fR	Set \fBuid\fR
\fBW_ISGID\fR	\fB002000\fR	Set \fBgid\fR
\fBW_ISVTX\fR	\fB001000\fR	Reserved
.TE

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
File Type Name	Value	Indicates
\fBC_ISDIR\fR	\fB040000\fR	Directory
\fBC_ISFIFO\fR	\fB010000\fR	FIFO
\fBC_ISREG\fR	\fB0100000\fR	Regular file
\fBC_ISLNK\fR	\fB0120000\fR	Symbolic link
\fBC_ISBLK\fR	\fB060000\fR	Block special file
\fBC_ISCHR\fR	\fB020000\fR	Character special file
\fBC_ISSOCK\fR	\fB0140000\fR	Socket
\fBC_ISCTG\fR	\fB0110000\fR	Reserved
.TE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_uid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains the user ID of the owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_gid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains the group ID of the group
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_nlink\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains a number greater than or equal to the number of links in the archive
referencing the file. If the \fB-a\fR option is used to append to a \fBcpio\fR
archive, \fBpax\fR does need not to account for the files in the existing part
of the archive when calculating the \fIc_nlink\fR values for the appended part
of the archive. It does also need not alter the \fIc_nlink\fR values in the
existing part of the archive if additional files with the same \fIc_dev\fR and
\fIc-ino\fR values are appended to the archive.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_rdev\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains implementation-defined information for character or block special
files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_mtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains the latest time of modification of the file at the time the archive
was created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_namesize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains the length of the pathname, including the terminating NULL character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIc_filesize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Contains the length of the file in octets. This is the length of the data
section following the header structure.
.RE

.SS "\fBcpio\fR Filename"
.sp
.LP
The \fIc_name\fR field contains the pathname of the file. The length of this
field in octets is the value of \fIc_namesize\fR. If a filename is found on the
medium that would create an invalid pathname, it is implementation-defined
whether the data from the file is stored on the file hierarchy and under what
name it is stored. All characters are represented in the \fIISO/IEC 646:
1991\fR standard IRV. For maximum portability between implementations, names
should be selected from characters represented by the portable filename
character set as octets with the most significant bit zero. If an
implementation supports the use of characters outside the portable filename
character set in names for files, users, and groups, one or more
implementation-defined encodings of these characters are provided for
interchange purposes.\fBpax\fR does not create filenames on the local system
that cannot be accessed by way of the procedures described in volume \fIIEEE
Std 1003.1-200x\fR. If a filename is found on the medium that would create an
invalid filename, it is implementation-defined whether the data from the file
is stored on the local file system and under what name it is stored. \fBpax\fR
can choose to ignore these files as long as it produces an error indicating
that the file is being ignored.
.SS "\fBcpio\fR File Data"
.sp
.LP
Following \fIc_name\fR, there is \fIc_filesize\fR octets of data.
Interpretation of such data occurs in a manner dependent on the file. If
\fIc_filesize\fR is zero, no data is contained in \fIc_filedata\fR . When
restoring from an archive:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the user does not have the appropriate privilege to create a file of the
specified type, \fBpax\fR ignores the entry and writes an error message to
standard error.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Only regular files have data to be restored. Presuming a regular file meets any
selection criteria that might be imposed on the format-reading utility by the
user, such data is restored.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If a user does not have appropriate privilege to set a particular \fImode\fR
flag, the flag is ignored. Some of the \fImode\fR flags in the archive format
are not mentioned in volume \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR. If the implementation
does not support those flags, they can be ignored.
.RE
.SS "\fBcpio\fR Special Entries"
.sp
.LP
FIFO special files, directories, and the trailer are recorded with
\fIc_filesize\fR equal to zero. For other special files, \fIc_filesize\fR is
unspecified in volume \fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR. The header for the next file
entry in the archive are written directly after the last octet of the file
entry preceding it. A header denoting the filename trailer indicates the end of
the archive; the contents of octets in the last block of the archive following
such a header are undefined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBcpio\fR(1), \fBed\fR(1), \fBprintf\fR(1), \fBtar\fR(1),
\fBmkdir\fR(2), \fBlseek\fR(2), \fBstat\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2),
\fBarchives.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBfnmatch\fR(5), \fBformats\fR(5)\fBfsattr\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5),
\fBregex\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 1003.1-200x\fR, \fIISO/IEC 646: 1991\fR, \fIISO POSIX-2:1993
Standard\fR
