'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PKGMK 1 "Oct 30, 2007"
.SH NAME
pkgmk \- produce an installable package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpkgmk\fR [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-a\fR \fIarch\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIbase_src_dir\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR]
     [\fB-f\fR \fIprototype\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlimit\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIpstamp\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fIroot_path\fR]
     [\fB-v\fR \fIversion\fR] [\fIvariable=value\fR]... [\fIpkginst\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpkgmk\fR utility produces an installable package to be used as input to
the \fBpkgadd\fR(1M) command. The package contents is in directory structure
format.
.sp
.LP
The command uses the package \fBprototype\fR(4) file as input and creates a
\fBpkgmap\fR(4) file. The contents for each entry in the \fBprototype\fR file
is copied to the appropriate output location. Information concerning the
contents (checksum, file size, modification date) is computed and stored in the
\fBpkgmap\fR file, along with attribute information specified in the
\fBprototype\fR file.
.sp
.LP
\fBpkgmk\fR searches for the files listed in the \fBprototype\fR(4) file as
described in the following conditions. \fBNote:\fR If a prototype file contains
the explicit location of the file to include in the package, then the following
search explanations do not apply.
.RS +4
.TP
1.
If neither \fB-b\fR nor \fB-r\fR options are specified, the file name
component of each file path listed in the \fBprototype\fR(4) file is expected
to be found in the same directory as the \fBprototype\fR(4) file
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
If \fB-b\fR is specified as a relative path (without a leading "\fB/\fR"),
then \fIbase_src_dir\fR is prepended to the relative file paths from the
\fBprototype\fR(4) file. The resulting path is searched for in the
\fIroot_path\fR directories. If a \fIroot_path\fR is not specified, it defaults
to "\fB/\fR".
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
If \fB-b\fR is specified as an absolute path (with a leading "\fB/\fR"),
then \fIbase_src_dir\fR is prepended to the relative paths from the
\fBprototype\fR(4) file and the result is the location of the file.
\fIroot_path\fR is \fBnot\fR searched.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
If \fB-r\fR is specified, then full file paths are used from the
\fBprototype\fR(4) file. Relative paths have \fIbase_src_dir\fR prepended. If
\fIbase_src_dir\fR is not specified, it defaults to \fB""\fR. The resulting
path is searched for in each directory of the \fIroot_path\fR.
.RE
.sp
.LP
If you created your prototype file using \fB"pkgproto a/relative/path"\fRor
\fB"pkgproto a/relative/path=install/path"\fR, you should use the \fB-r\fR
\fIroot_path\fR option to specify the location of \fBa/relative/path\fR so that
\fBpkgmk\fR can correctly locate your source files.
.sp
.LP
Package commands, including \fBpkgmk\fR, are \fBlargefile\fR(5)-aware. They
handle files larger than 2 GB in the same way they handle smaller files. In
their current implementations, \fBpkgadd\fR(1M), \fBpkgtrans\fR(1) and other
package commands can process a datastream of  up to 4 GB.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR \fIarch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Overrides the architecture information provided in the \fBpkginfo\fR(4) file
with \fIarch\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR \fIbase_src_dir\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Prepends the indicated \fIbase_src_dir\fR to locate relocatable objects on the
source machine. Use this option to search for all objects in the prototype
file. \fBpkgmk\fR expects to find the objects in /\fIbase_src_dir\fR or to
locate the objects by use of the \fB-b\fR and \fB-r\fR options, respectively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Creates the package on \fIdevice\fR. \fIdevice\fR can be an absolute directory
pathname or the identifiers for a floppy disk or removable disk (for example,
\fB/dev/diskette\fR). The default device is the installation spool directory
(\fB/var/spool/pkg\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIprototype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Uses the file \fIprototype\fR as input to the command. The default
\fIprototype\fR filename is [\fBPp\fR]\fBrototype\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR \fIlimit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Specifies the maximum size in 512 byte blocks of the output device as
\fBlimit\fR. By default, if the output file is a directory or a mountable
device, \fBpkgmk\fR employs the \fBdf\fR(1M) command to dynamically calculate
the amount of available space on the output device. This option is useful in
conjunction with \fBpkgtrans\fR(1) to create a package with a datastream
format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Overwrites the same instance; package instance is overwritten if it already
exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpstamp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Overrides the production stamp definition in the \fBpkginfo\fR(4) file with
\fIpstamp\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR \fIroot_path\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Uses the indicated \fIroot_path\fR with the source pathname appended to locate
objects on the source machine, using a comma (\fB,\fR) as the separator for the
path elements. If this option is specified, look for the full destination path
in each of the directories specified. If neither \fB-b\fR nor \fB-r\fR is
specified, look for the leaf filename in the current directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fIversion\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Overrides the version information provided in the \fBpkginfo\fR(4) file with
\fIversion\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvariable=value\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Places the indicated variable in the packaging environment. (See
\fBprototype\fR(4) for definitions of variable specifications.)
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpkginst\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A package designation by its instance. An instance can be the package
abbreviation or a specific instance (for example, \fBinst.1\fR or
\fBinst.2\fR). All instances of a package can be requested by \fBinst.*\fR. The
asterisk character (\fB*\fR) is a special character to some shells and might
need to be escaped. In the C-Shell, \fB*\fR must be surrounded by single quotes
(\fB\&'\fR) or preceded by a backslash (\e).
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpkgparam\fR(1), \fBpkgproto\fR(1), \fBpkgtrans\fR(1), \fBuname\fR(1),
\fBdf\fR(1M), \fBpkgadd\fR(1M), \fBpkginfo\fR(4), \fBpkgmap\fR(4),
\fBprototype\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBlargefile\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIApplication Packaging Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Architecture information is provided on the command line with the \fB-a\fR
option or in the \fBprototype\fR(4) file. If no architecture information is
supplied, \fBpkgmk\fR uses the output of \fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR (see
\fBuname\fR(1)).
.sp
.LP
Version information is provided on the command line with the \fB-v\fR option or
in the \fBpkginfo\fR(4) file. If no version information is supplied, a default
based on the current date is provided.
.sp
.LP
Command line definitions for both architecture and version override the
\fBprototype\fR(4) definitions.
.sp
.LP
\fBpkgmk\fR fails if one of the following invalid combinations of zone-related
parameters is used:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Both \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR and \fBSUNW_PKG_THISZONE\fR are set to
\fBTRUE\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fBSUNW_PKG_HOLLOW\fR is set to \fBTRUE\fR and \fBSUNW_PKG_ALLZONES\fR is
set to \fBFALSE\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
The package contains a request script and \fBSUNW_PKG_THISZONE\fR set to
\fBTRUE\fR.
.RE
.sp
.LP
For additional information regarding these parameters, see \fBpkginfo\fR(4).
