'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH postdaisy 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postdaisy \- PostScript translator for Diablo 630 daisy-wheel files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostdaisy\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR] 
     [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-v\fR \fInum \fR] 
     [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postdaisy\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpostdaisy\fR filter translates Diablo 630 daisy-wheel \fIfiles\fR into
PostScript and writes the results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are
specified, or if \(mi is one of the input \fIfiles\fR, the standard input is
read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fInum\fR copies of each page. By default only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fIfiles\fR using font \fIname\fR. Any PostScript font can be used,
although the best results will be obtained only with constant-width fonts. The
default font is Courier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Set the initial horizontal motion index to \fInum\fR. Determines the character
advance and the default point size, unless the \fB-s\fR option is used. The
default is  \fB12\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Magnify each logical page by the factor \fInum\fR. Pages are scaled uniformly
about the origin, which is located near the upper left corner of each page. The
default magnification is  \fB1.0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fInum\fR logical pages on each piece of paper, where \fInum\fR can be
any positive integer. By default, \fInum\fR is set to  \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated \fIlist\fR. The list
contains single numbers \fIN\fR and ranges \fIN1 \fR\(mi \fIN2\fR. A missing
\fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered page, a missing \fIN2\fR means the highest.
The page range is an expression of logical pages rather than physical sheets of
paper. For example, if you are printing two logical pages to a sheet, and you
specified a range of \fB4\fR, then two sheets of paper would print, containing
four page layouts. If you specified a page range of \fB3-4\fR, when requesting
two logical pages to a sheet; then \fIonly\fR page 3 and page 4 layouts would
print, and they would appear on one physical sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI mode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fIfiles\fR in either portrait or landscape \fImode\fR. Only the first
character of \fImode\fR is significant. The default \fImode\fR is portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Selects carriage return and line feed behavior. If \fInum\fR is 1, a line feed
generates a carriage return. If \fInum\fR is 2, a carriage return generates a
line feed. Setting \fInum\fR to 3 enables both modes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Use point size \fInum\fR instead of the default value set by the initial
horizontal motion index.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Set the initial vertical motion index to \fInum\fR. The default is  \fB8\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive x axis. The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed near the upper left corner of the page,
with positive x to the right and positive y down the page. Positive \fInum\fR
moves everything right. The default offset is  \fB0.25\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves text up the page. The default offset is  \fB\(mi0.25\fR inches.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdownload\fR(1), \fBdpost\fR(1), \fBpostdmd\fR(1), \fBpostio\fR(1),
\fBpostmd\fR(1), \fBpostprint\fR(1), \fBpostreverse\fR(1), \fBposttek\fR(1),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
