'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POSTPRINT 1 "May 13, 2017"
.SH NAME
postprint \- PostScript translator for text files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostprint\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-r\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fI num\fR]
     [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postprint\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpostprint\fR filter translates text \fIfiles\fR into PostScript and
writes the results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are specified, or
if \fB\(mi\fR is one of the input \fIfiles\fR, the standard input is read.
.SH OPTIONS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fInum\fR copies of each page. By default, only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fIfiles\fR using font \fIname\fR. Any PostScript font can be used,
although the best results will be obtained only with constant width fonts. The
default font is Courier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Set the length of a page to \fInum\fR lines. By default, \fInum\fR is \fB66\fR.
Setting \fInum\fR to \fB0\fR is allowed, and will cause \fBpostprint\fR to
guess a value, based on the point size that's being used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Magnify each logical page by the factor \fInum\fR. Pages are scaled uniformly
about the origin, which is located near the upper left corner of each page. The
default magnification is \fB1.0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fInum\fR logical pages on each piece of paper, where \fInum\fR can be
any positive integer. By default, \fInum\fR is set to \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated \fIlist\fR. The
\fIlist\fR contains single numbers \fIN\fR and ranges \fIN1 \fR\(mi\fI N2\fR. A
missing \fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered page, a missing \fIN2\fR means the
highest. The page range is an expression of logical pages rather than physical
sheets of paper. For example, if you are printing two logical pages to a
sheet, and you specified a range of \fB4\fR, then two sheets of paper would
print, containing four page layouts. If you specified a page range of
\fB3-4\fR, when requesting two logical pages to a sheet; then \fIonly\fR page
3 and page 4 layouts would print, and they would appear on one physical sheet
of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI mode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fIfiles\fR in either portrait or landscape \fImode\fR. Only the first
character of \fImode\fR is significant. The default \fImode\fR is portrait.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Selects carriage return behavior. Carriage returns are ignored if \fInum\fR is
\fB0\fR, cause a return to column 1 if \fInum\fR is \fB1\fR, and generate a
newline if \fInum\fR is \fB2\fR. The default \fInum\fR is \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Print \fIfiles\fR using point size \fInum\fR. When printing in landscape mode
\fInum\fR is scaled by a factor that depends on the imaging area of the device.
The default size for portrait mode is \fB10\fR. Note that increasing point
size increases virtual image size, so you either need to load larger paper, or
use the \fB\(mil0\fR option to scale the number of lines per page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Assume tabs are set every \fInum\fR columns, starting with the first column. By
default, tabs are set every \fB8\fR columns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive x axis. The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed near the upper left corner of the page,
with positive x to the right and positive y down the page. Positive \fInum\fR
moves everything to the right. The default offset is \fB0.25\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves text up the page. The default offset is \fB\(mi0.25\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.LP
A new logical page is started after 66 lines have been printed on the current
page, or whenever an ASCII form feed character is read. The number of lines
per page can be changed using the \fB-l\fR option. Unprintable ASCII characters
are ignored, and lines that are too long are silently truncated by the printer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of \fBpostprint\fR.
.sp
.LP
To print \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR in landscape mode, issue the following
command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postprint \fR\fB-pland\fR\fB \fR\fIfile1 file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
To print three logical pages on each physical page in portrait mode:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postprint \fR\fB-n3\fR\fB \fR\fBfile\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdownload\fR(1), \fBdpost\fR(1), \fBpostio\fR(1), \fBpostreverse\fR(1),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
