'\" te
.\" from SVr4  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH posttek 1 "9 Sep 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
posttek \- PostScript translator for Tektronix 4014 files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBposttek\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] 
     [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/posttek\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBposttek\fR filter translates Tektronix 4014 graphics \fIfiles\fR into
PostScript and writes the results on the standard output. If no \fIfiles\fR are
specified, or if \fB\(mi\fR is one of the input \fIfiles\fR, the standard input
is read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fInum\fR copies of each page. By default, only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print text using font \fIname\fR. Any PostScript font can be used, although the
best results will be obtained only with constant width fonts. The default font
is Courier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Magnify each logical page by the factor \fInum\fR. Pages are scaled uniformly
about the origin which, by default, is located at the center of each page. The
default magnification is  \fB1.0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fInum\fR logical pages on each piece of paper, where \fInum\fR can be
any positive integer. By default, \fInum\fR is set to  \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated \fIlist\fR. The
\fIlist\fR contains single numbers \fIN\fR and ranges \fIN1 \fR\(mi\fI N2\fR. A
missing \fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered page, a missing \fIN2\fR means the
highest. The page range is an expression of logical pages rather than physical
sheets of paper. For example, if you are printing two logical pages to a sheet,
and you specified a range of \fB4\fR, then two sheets of paper would print,
containing four page layouts. If you specified a page range of \fB 3-4\fR, when
requesting two logical pages to a sheet; then \fIonly\fR page 3 and page 4
layouts would print, and they would appear on one physical sheet of paper.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI mode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fIfiles\fR in either portrait or landscape \fImode\fR. Only the first
character of \fImode\fR is significant. The default \fImode\fR is landscape.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Set the line width used for graphics to \fInum\fR points, where a point is
approximately 1/72 of an inch. By default, \fInum\fR is set to  \fB0\fR points,
which forces lines to be one pixel wide.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive x axis. The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed at the center of the page, with positive
x to the right and positive y up the page. Positive \fInum\fR moves everything
right. The default offset is  \fB0.0\fR inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves everything up the page. The default offset is  \fB0.0\fR.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdownload\fR(1), \fBdpost\fR(1), \fBpostdaisy\fR(1), \fBpostdmd\fR(1),
\fBpostio\fR(1), \fBpostmd\fR(1), \fBpostprint\fR(1), \fBpostreverse\fR(1),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default line width is too small for write-white print engines, such as the
one used by the PS-2400.
