'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH postplot 1 "17 Jun 1992" "SunOS 5.11" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
postplot \- PostScript translator for plot(4B) graphics files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostplot\fR [\fB-c\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIname\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIlist\fR] 
     [\fB-p\fR \fImode\fR] [\fB-w\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-x\fR \fInum\fR] [\fB-y\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postplot\fR 
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpostplot\fR filter translates \fBplot\fR(1B) graphics \fIfilenames\fR
into PostScript and writes the results on the standard output. If no
\fIfilenames\fR are specified, or if \fB\(mi\fR is one of the input
\fIfilenames\fR, the standard input is read.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fInum\fR copies of each page. By default, only one copy is printed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fI name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print text using font \fIname\fR. Any PostScript font can be used, although the
best results will be obtained  only with constant width fonts. The default font
is Courier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Magnify each logical page by the factor \fInum\fR. Pages are scaled uniformly
about the origin which, by default, is located at the center of each page. The
default magnification is 1.0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fInum\fR logical pages on each piece of paper, where \fInum\fR can be
any positive integer. By default, \fInum\fR is set to 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print pages whose numbers are given in the comma-separated \fIlist\fR. The list
contains single numbers \fIN\fR and ranges \fIN1 \fR\(mi\fI N2\fR. A missing
\fIN1\fR means the lowest numbered page, a missing \fIN2\fR means the highest.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI mode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Print \fIfilenames\fR in either portrait or landscape \fImode\fR. Only the
first character of \fImode\fR is significant. The default \fImode\fR is
landscape.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Set the line width used for graphics to \fInum\fR points, where a point is
approximately 1/72 of an inch. By default, \fInum\fR is set to 0 points, which
forces lines to be one pixel wide.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive x axis. The default
coordinate system has the origin fixed at the center of the page, with positive
x to the right and positive y up the page. Positive \fInum\fR moves everything
right. The default offset is 0.0 inches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
Translate the origin \fInum\fR inches along the positive y axis. Positive
\fInum\fR moves everything up the page. The default offset is 0.0.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIfilename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
.rt  
The graphics filename to be translated
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit value is returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
.rt  
\fIfilename\fR(s) were successfully processed.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/forms.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postplot.ps\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/ps.requests\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdownload\fR(1), \fBdpost\fR(1), \fBplot\fR(1B), \fBpostdaisy\fR(1),
\fBpostdmd\fR(1), \fBpostio\fR(1), \fBpostmd\fR(1), \fBpostprint\fR(1),
\fBpostreverse\fR(1), \fBplot\fR(4B), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The default line width is too small for write-white print engines, such as the
one used by the PS-2400.
