'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POSTIO 1 "May 13, 2017"
.SH NAME
postio \- serial interface for PostScript printers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpostio\fR \fB-l\fR \fIline\fR [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-t\fR] [\fB-S\fR] [\fB-b\fR \fIspeed\fR] [\fB-B\fR \fInum\fR]
     [\fB-L\fR \fIfile\fR] [\fB-P\fR \fIstring\fR] [\fB-R\fR \fInum\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/lp/postscript/postio\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBpostio\fR sends \fIfiles\fR to the PostScript printer attached to
\fIline.\fR If no \fIfiles\fR are specified the standard input is sent.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The first group of \fIoptions\fR should be sufficient for most applications:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Enable debug mode. Guarantees that everything read on \fBline\fR will be added
to the log file (standard error by default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Prevents status queries while \fIfiles\fR are being sent to the printer. When
status queries are disabled a dummy message is appended to the log file before
each block is transmitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fI speed\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Transmit data over \fBline\fR at baud rate \fIspeed\fR. Recognized baud rates
are 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600, and 19200. The default \fIspeed\fR is \fB9600\fR
baud.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-B\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Set the internal buffer size for reading and writing \fIfiles\fR to \fInum\fR
bytes. By default \fInum\fR is \fB2048\fR bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI line\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Connect to the printer attached to \fBline\fR. In most cases there is no
default and \fBpostio\fR must be able to read and write \fBline\fR. If the
\fBline\fR does not begin with a \fB/\fR it may be treated as a Datakit
destination.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fI file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Data received on \fBline\fR gets put in \fBfile\fR. The default log \fBfile\fR
is standard error. Printer or status messages that don't show a change in state
are not normally written to \fBfile\fR but can be forced out using the \fB-D\fR
option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-P\fR\fI string\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Send \fIstring\fR to the printer before any of the input files. The default
\fIstring\fR is simple PostScript code that disables timeouts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fI num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Run \fBpostio\fR as a single process if \fInum\fR is 1 or as separate read and
write processes if \fInum\fR is 2. By default \fBpostio\fR runs as a single
process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The next two \fIoptions\fR are provided for users who expect to run
\fBpostio\fR on their own. Neither is suitable for use in spooler interface
programs:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Run the program in interactive mode. Any \fIfiles\fR are sent first and
followed by the standard input. Forces separate read and write processes and
overrides many other options. To exit interactive mode use your interrupt or
quit character. To get a friendly interactive connection with the printer type
\fBexecutive\fR on a line by itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Data received on \fBline\fR and not recognized as printer or status information
is written to the standard output. Forces separate read and write processes.
Convenient if you have a PostScript program that will be returning useful data
to the host.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The last option is not generally recommended and should only be used if all
else fails to provide a reliable connection:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Slow the transmission of data to the printer. Severely limits throughput, runs
as a single process, disables the \fB-q\fR option, limits the internal buffer
size to 1024 bytes, can use an excessive amount of CPU time, and does nothing
in interactive mode.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The best performance will usually be obtained by using a large internal buffer
(the \fB-B\fR option) and by running the program as separate read and write
processes (the \fB\fR\fB-R\fR\fB 2\fR option). Inability to fork the additional
process causes \fBpostio\fR to continue as a single read/write process. When
one process is used, only data sent to the printer is flow controlled.
.sp
.LP
The \fIoptions\fR are not all mutually exclusive. The \fB-i\fR option always
wins, selecting its own settings for whatever is needed to run interactive
mode, independent of anything else found on the command line. Interactive mode
runs as separate read and write processes and few of the other \fIoptions\fR
accomplish anything in the presence of the \fB-i\fR option. The \fB-t\fR option
needs a reliable two way connection to the printer and therefore tries to force
separate read and write processes. The \fB-S\fR option relies on the status
query mechanism, so \fB-q\fR is disabled and the program runs as a single
process.
.sp
.LP
In most cases \fBpostio\fR starts by making a connection to \fBline\fR and then
attempts to force the printer into the IDLE state by sending an appropriate
sequence of \fB^T\fR (status query), \fB^C\fR (interrupt), and \fB^D\fR (end
of job) characters. When the printer goes IDLE, \fIfiles\fR are transmitted
along with an occasional \fB^T\fR (unless the \fB-q\fR option was used). After
all the \fIfiles\fR are sent the program waits until it's reasonably sure the
job is complete. Printer generated error messages received at any time except
while establishing the initial connection (or when running interactive mode)
cause \fB postio\fR to exit with a non-zero status. In addition to being added
to the log file, printer error messages are also echoed to standard error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of the \fBpostio\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Run as a single process at 9600 baud and send \fIfile1\fR and \fIfile2\fR to
the printer attached to \fB/dev/tty01\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fR\fB-l\fR\fB /dev/tty01 \fR\fIfile1 file2\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Same as above except two processes are used, the internal buffer is set to 4096
bytes, and data returned by the printer gets put in file \fIlog\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fR\fB-R\fR\fB 2 \fR\fB-B\fR\fB 4096 \fR\fB-l/dev/tty01\fR\fB \fR\fB-L\fR\fB \fIlog file1 file2\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Establish an interactive connection with the printer at Datakit destination
\fImy/printer\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fR\fB-i\fR\fB \fR\fB-l\fR\fB \fImy/printer\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Send file program to the printer connected to \fB/dev/tty22\fR, recover any
data in file results, and put log messages in file \fIlog\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBexample% postio \fR\fB-t\fR\fB \fR\fB-l\fR\fB /dev/tty22 \fR\fB-L\fR\fB \fIlog program\fR >\fIresults\fR\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnon-zero\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdownload\fR(1), \fBdpost\fR(1), \fBpostprint\fR(1), \fBpostreverse\fR(1),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The input \fIfiles\fR are handled as a single PostScript job. Sending several
different jobs, each with their own internal end of job mark (\fB^D\fR) is not
guaranteed to work properly. \fBpostio\fR may quit before all the jobs have
completed and could be restarted before the last one finishes.
.sp
.LP
All the capabilities described above may not be available on every machine or
even across the different versions of the UNIX system that are currently
supported by the program.
.sp
.LP
There may be no default \fBline\fR, so using the \fB-l\fR option is strongly
recommended. If omitted, \fBpostio\fR may attempt to connect to the printer
using the standard output. If Datakit is involved, the \fB-b\fR option may be
ineffective and attempts by \fBpostio\fR to impose flow control over data in
both directions may not work. The \fB-q\fR option can help if the printer is
connected to RADIAN. The \fB-S\fR option is not generally recommended and
should be used only if all other attempts to establish a reliable connection
fail.
