'\" te
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015, Richard Lowe.
.\"
.TH "PSECFLAGS" "1" "June 6, 2016"
.SH "NAME"
\fBpsecflags\fR - inspect or modify process security flags
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/psecflags\fR \fI-s\fR \fIspec\fR \fI-e\fR \fIcommand\fR \
[\fIarg\fR]...
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/psecflags\fR \fI-s\fR \fIspec\fR [\fI-i\fR \fIidtype\fR] \
\fIid\fR ...
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/psecflags\fR [\fI-F\fR] { \fIpid\fR | \fIcore\fR }
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/psecflags\fR \fI-l\fR
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The first invocation of the \fBpsecflags\fR command runs the specified
\fIcommand\fR with the security-flags modified as described by the \fI-s\fR
argument.
.P
The second invocation modifies the security-flags of the processes described
by \fIidtype\fR and \fIid\fR according as described by the \fI-s\fR argument.
.P
The third invocation describes the security-flags of the specified processes
or core files.  The effective set is signified by '\fBE\fR', the inheritable
set by '\fBI\fR', the lower set by '\fBL\fR', and the upper set by '\fBU\fR'.
.P
The fourth invocation lists the supported process security-flags, documented
in \fBsecurity-flags\fR(5).

.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-e\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Interpret the remaining arguments as a command line and run the command with
the security-flags specified with the \fI-s\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-F\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Force. Grab the target process even if another process has control.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-i\fR \fIidtype\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
This option, together with the \fIid\fR arguments specify one or more
processes whose security-flags will be modified. The interpretation of the
\fIid\fR arguments is based on \fIidtype\fR. If \fIidtype\fR is omitted the
default is \fBpid\fR.

Valid \fIidtype\fR options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBall\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fBpsecflags\fR command applies to all processes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBcontract\fR, \fBctid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process with a contract ID matching the \fIid\fR
arguments are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBgroup\fR, \fBgid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process with a group ID matching the \fIid\fR
arguments are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process with a process ID matching the \fIid\fR
arguments are modified. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBppid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any processes whose parent process ID matches the
\fIid\fR arguments are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBproject\fR, \fBprojid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process whose project ID matches the \fIid\fR
arguments are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsession\fR, \fBsid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process whose session ID matches the \fIid\fR
arguments are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBtaskid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process whose task ID matches the \fIid\fR arguments
are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBuser\fR, \fBuid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process belonging to the users matching the \fIid\fR
arguments are modified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBzone\fR, \fBzoneid\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The security-flags of any process running in the zones matching the given
\fIid\fR arguments are modified.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-l\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
List all supported process security-flags, described in
\fBsecurity-flags\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-s\fR \fIspecification\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Modify the process security-flags according to
\fIspecification\fR. Specifications take the form of a comma-separated list of
flags, optionally preceded by a '-' or '!'. Where '-' and '!' indicate that the
given flag should be removed from the specification.  The pseudo-flags "all",
"none" and "current" are supported, to indicate that all flags, no flags, or
the current set of flags (respectively) are to be included.
.P
By default, the inheritable flags are changed.  You may optionally specify the
set to change using their single-letter identifiers and an equals sign.
.P
For a list of valid security-flags, see \fBpsecflags -l\fR.
.RE

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.LP
\fBExample 1\fR Display the security-flags of the current shell.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBpsecflags $$\fR
100718:	-sh
	E:	aslr
	I:	aslr
	L:	none
	U:	aslr,forbidnullmap,noexecstack
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2\fR Run a user command with ASLR enabled in addition to any
inherited security flags.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBpsecflags -s current,aslr -e /bin/sh\fR
$ psecflags $$
100724:	-sh
	E:	none
	I:	aslr
	L:	none
	U:	aslr,forbidnullmap,noexecstack
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3\fR Remove aslr from the inheritable flags of all Bob's processes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBpsecflags -s current,-aslr -i uid bob\fR
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 4\fR Add the aslr flag to the lower set, so that all future
child processes must have this flag set.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example# \fBpsecflags -s L=current,aslr $$\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:

.TP
\fB0\fR
.IP
Success.

.TP
\fBnon-zero\fR
.IP
An error has occurred.

.SH "ATTRIBUTES"
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Volatile
.TE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR exec (2),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR contract (4),
.BR security-flags (5),
.BR zones (5)
