.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2019, Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2024 Jason King
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.Dd January 9, 2025
.Dt PTREE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ptree
.Nd print process trees
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl c
.Op Fl g
.Op Fl w
.Op Fl s Ar svc
.Op Fl z Ar zone
.Oo Ar pid | Ar user Oc Ns ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility prints the process trees containing the specified
.Ar pid Ns s
or
.Ar user Ns s ,
with child processes indented from their respective parent processes.
An argument of all digits is taken to be a process-ID,
otherwise it is assumed to be a user login name.
The default is all processes.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width "-z zone"
.It Fl a
All.
Print all processes, including children of process 0.
.It Fl c
Contracts.
Print process contract memberships and their associated SMF FMRIs, in addition
to parent-child relationships.
See
.Xr process 5 .
This option implies the
.Fl a
option.
.It Fl g
Use line drawing characters.
If the current locale is a UTF-8 locale, the UTF-8 line drawing characters are
used, otherwise ASCII line drawing characters are used.
.It Fl s Ar svc
Print only processes with an SMF service FMRI matching the argument.
The FMRI may be in truncated form
.Po
such as
.Ql console-login
.Pc .
This includes child processes even if they are not members of the service
contract.
See
.Xr process 5 .
.It Fl w
Allow output lines to wrap.
Normally output lines are truncated to the current width of the terminal window.
.It Fl z Ar zone
Zones.
Print only processes in the specified
.Ar zone .
Each zone
.Sy ID
can be specified as either a zone name or a numerical zone
.Sy ID .
.Pp
This option is only useful when executed in the global zone.
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width "user"
.It Ar pid
Process-id or a list of process-ids.
.Nm
also accepts
.Pa /proc/ Ns Em nnn
as a process-id, so the shell expansion
.Pa /proc/*
can be used to specify all processes in the system.
.It Ar user
Username or list of usernames.
Processes whose effective user IDs match those
given are displayed.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /proc/*
process files
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -inset
.It Sy Example 1
Using ptree
.Pp
The following example prints the process tree (including children of process 0)
for processes which match the command name
.Sy ssh :
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
$ ptree -a `pgrep ssh`
        1     /sbin/init
          100909 /usr/lib/ssh/sshd
            569150 /usr/lib/ssh/sshd
              569157 /usr/lib/ssh/sshd
                569159 -ksh
                  569171 bash
                    569173 /bin/ksh
                      569193 bash
.Ed
.It Sy Example 2
.Pp
The following example prints the process tree (including children of process 0)
for processes which match the command name
.Ql ssh
with ASCII line drawing characters:
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
$ ptree -ag `pgrep ssh`
        1     /sbin/init
        `-100909 /usr/lib/ssh/sshd
          `-569150 /usr/lib/ssh/sshd
            `-569157 /usr/lib/ssh/sshd
              `-569159 -ksh
                `-569171 bash
                  `-569173 /bin/ksh
                    `-569193 bash
.Ed
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
Not-an-Interface
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pargs 1 ,
.Xr pgrep 1 ,
.Xr pkill 1 ,
.Xr preap 1 ,
.Xr proc 1 ,
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr contract 5 ,
.Xr proc 5 ,
.Xr process 5 ,
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr zones 7
