'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RANLIB 1 "Jun 28, 2007"
.SH NAME
ranlib \- convert archives to random libraries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBranlib\fR \fIarchive\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBranlib\fR utility was used in SunOS 4.\fIx\fR to add a table of contents
to archive libraries, which converted each archive to a form that could be
linked more rapidly. This is no longer needed, as the \fBar\fR(1) command
automatically provides all the functionality \fBranlib\fR used to provide.
.sp
.LP
This script is provided as a convenience for software developers who need to
maintain Makefiles that are portable across a variety of operating systems.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
\fBranlib\fR has exit status \fB0\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5)
