'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH RDIST 1 "Dec 23, 2008"
.SH NAME
rdist \- remote file distribution program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrdist\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fB-x\fR]
     [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-y\fR]
     [\fB-d\fR \fImacro\fR \fI=\fR \fIvalue\fR] [\fB-f\fR \fIdistfile\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIhost\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrdist\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-D\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-q\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-a\fR] [\fB-K\fR] [\fB-x\fR]
     [\fB-PN\fR | \fB-PO\fR] [\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR] [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-w\fR] [\fB-y\fR] \fB-c\fR \fIpathname\fR...
     [\fIlogin\fR @] \fIhostname\fR [: \fIdestpath\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrdist\fR utility maintains copies of files on multiple hosts. It
preserves the owner, group, mode, and modification time of the master copies,
and can update programs that are executing. (\fBrdist\fR does not propagate
ownership or mode changes when the file contents have not changed.) Normally, a
copy on a remote host is updated if its size or modification time differs from
the original on the local host. With the \fB-y\fR option (younger mode), only
the modification times are checked, not the size. See \fBOPTIONS\fR below.
.sp
.LP
There are two forms of the \fBrdist\fR command. In the first form shown in the
\fBSYNOPSIS\fR section above, \fBrdist\fR reads the indicated \fIdistfile\fR
for instructions on updating files and/or directories. If \fIdistfile\fR is
`\fB\(mi\fR\&', the standard input is used. If no \fB-f\fR option is present,
\fBrdist\fR first looks in its working directory for \fBdistfile\fR, and then
for \fBDistfile\fR, for instructions.
.sp
.LP
The second form shown in \fBSYNOPSIS\fR uses the \fB-c\fR option and specifies
paths as command line options.
.sp
.LP
The user can opt for a secure session of \fBrdist\fR which uses Kerberos V5 for
authentication. Encryption of the data being transferred is also possible. The
\fBrdist\fR session can be kerberized using any of the following Kerberos
specific options : \fB-a\fR, \fB-PN\fR or \fB-PO\fR, \fB-x\fR, and \fB-k\fR
\fIrealm\fR. Some of these options (\fB-a\fR, \fB-x\fR, \fB-PN\fR or \fB-PO\fR,
and \fB-f\fR or \fB-F\fR) can also be specified in the \fB[appdefaults]\fR
section of \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4). The usage of these options and the expected
behavior is discussed in the OPTIONS section below. If Kerberos authentication
is used, authorization to the account is controlled by rules in
\fBkrb5_auth_rules\fR(5). If this authorization fails, fallback to normal
\fBrdist\fR using rhosts occurs only if the \fB-PO\fR option is used explicitly
on the command line or is specified in \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4). Also notice that the
\fB-PN\fR or \fB-PO\fR, \fB-x\fR, and \fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR options are just
supersets of the \fB-a\fR option. In order to use the non-secure version of
\fBrdist\fR across machines, each host machine must have a
\fB/etc/host.equiv\fR file, or the user must have an entry in the
\fB\&.rhosts\fR file in the home directory. See \fBhosts.equiv\fR(4) for more
information.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option explicitly enables Kerberos authentication and trusts the
\fB\&.k5login\fR file for access-control. If the authorization check by
\fBin.rshd\fR(1M) on the server-side succeeds and if the \fB\&.k5login\fR file
permits access, the user is allowed to carry out the \fBrdist\fR transfer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Binary comparison. Performs a binary comparison and updates files if they
differ, rather than merely comparing dates and sizes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR
\fIpathname\fR .\|.\|.[\fIlogin\|\fR\fB@\fR]\fIhostname\fR[\fB:\fR\fIdestpath\|\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Copies each \fIpathname\fR to the named host; if \fIdestpath\fR is specified,
it does not update any \fIpathname\fR on the named host. (Relative filenames
are taken as relative to your home directory.) If the `\fIlogin\fR\fB\|@\fR\&'
prefix is given, the update is performed with the user \fBID\fR of \fIlogin\fR.
If the `\fB:\fR\fIdestpath\fR' is given, the remote file is installed as that
pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fImacro\fR\fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Defines \fImacro\fR to have \fIvalue\fR. This option is used to define or
override macro definitions in the distfile. \fIvalue\fR can be the empty
string, one name, or a list of names surrounded by parentheses and separated by
white space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables debugging.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIdistfile\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Uses the description file \fIdistfile\fR. A `\fB\(mi\fR\&' as the
\fIdistfile\fR argument denotes the standard input.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Follows symbolic links. Copies the file that the link points to rather than the
link itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Ignores unresolved links. \fBrdist\fR normally tries to maintain the link
structure of files being transferred and warn the user if all the links cannot
be found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR \fIrealm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes \fBrdist\fR to obtain tickets for the remote host in \fIrealm\fR instead
of the remote host's realm as determined by \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-K\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option explicitly disables Kerberos authentication. It can be used to
override the \fBautologin\fR variable in \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIhost\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Limits which machines are to be updated. Multiple \fB-m\fR arguments can be
given to limit updates to a subset of the hosts listed in the distfile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Prints the commands without executing them. This option is useful for debugging
a distfile.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-PO\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB-PN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Explicitly requests new (\fB-PN\fR) or old (\fB-PO\fR) version of the Kerberos
"\fBrcmd\fR" protocol. The new protocol avoids many security problems prevalant
in the old one and is regarded much more secure, but is not interoperable with
older (MIT/SEAM) servers. The new protocol is used by default, unless
explicitly specified using these options or through \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4). If
Kerberos authorization fails when using the old "\fBrcmd\fR" protocol, there is
fallback to regular, non-kerberized \fBrdist\fR. This is not the case when the
new, more secure "\fBrcmd\fR" protocol is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Quiet mode. Does not display the files being updated on the standard output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Removes extraneous files. If a directory is being updated, removes files on the
remote host that do not correspond to those in the master (local) directory.
This is useful for maintaining truly identical copies of directories.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Verifies that the files are up to date on all the hosts. Any files that are out
of date are displayed, but no files are updated, nor is any mail sent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Whole mode. The whole file name is appended to the destination directory name.
Normally, only the last component of a name is used when renaming files. This
preserves the directory structure of the files being copied, instead of
flattening the directory structure. For instance, renaming a list of files such
as \fBdir1/dir2\fR to \fBdir3\fR would create files \fBdir3/dir1\fR and
\fBdir3/dir2\fR instead of \fBdir3\fR and \fBdir3\fR. When the \fB-w\fR option
is used with a filename that begins with \fB~\fR, everything except the home
directory is appended to the destination name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Causes the information transferred between hosts to be encrypted. Notice that
the command is sent unencrypted to the remote system. All subsequent transfers
are encrypted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-y\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Younger mode. Does not update remote copies that are younger than the master
copy, but issues a warning message instead. Only modification times are
checked. No comparison of size is made.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.SS "White Space Characters"
.sp
.LP
NEWLINE, TAB, and SPACE characters are all treated as white space; a mapping
continues across input lines until the start of the next mapping: either a
single \fIfilename\fR followed by a `\fB->\fR' or the opening parenthesis of a
filename list.
.SS "Comments"
.sp
.LP
Comments begin with \fB#\fR and end with a NEWLINE.
.SS "Distfiles"
.sp
.LP
The distfile contains a sequence of entries that specify the files to be
copied, the destination files to be copied, the destination hosts, and what
operations to perform to do the updating. Each entry has one of the following
formats:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIvariable_name\fR '=' \fIname_list\fR
[ label: ] \fIsource_list\fR '\fB->\fR' \fIdestination_list\fR \fIcommand_list\fR
[ label: ] \fIsource_list\fR '\fB::\fR' \fItime_stamp_file\fR \fIcommand_list\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The first format is used for defining variables. The second format is used for
distributing files to other hosts. The third format is used for making lists of
files that have been changed since some given date. The source list specifies a
list of files and/or directories on the local host that are to be used as the
master copy for distribution. The destination list is the list of hosts to
which these files are to be copied. Each file in the source list is added to a
list of changes if the file is out of date on the host that is being updated
(second format) or if the file is newer than the time stamp file (third
format). Labels are optional. They are used to identify a command for partial
updates. The colon (\fB:\fR) is used after an optional label, while the double
colon (\fB::\fR) is used for making lists of files that have been changed since
a certain date (specified by the date/time of the \fItime_stamp\fR file).
Typically, only \fBnotify\fR is used with the '\fB::\fR' format of the command
line.
.SS "Macros"
.sp
.LP
\fBrdist\fR has a limited macro facility. Macros are only expanded in filename
or hostname lists, and in the argument lists of certain primitives. Macros
cannot be used to stand for primitives or their options, or the `\fB->\fR' or
`\fB::\fR' symbols.
.sp
.LP
A macro definition is a line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fImacro\fR \fB=\fR \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
A macro reference is a string of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB${\fR\fImacro\fR\fB}\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
although (as with \fBmake\fR(1S)) the braces can be omitted if the macro name
consists of just one character.
.SS "Kerberos Access-Control file"
.sp
.LP
For the kerberized \fBrdist\fR session, each user might have a private
authorization list in a file \fB\&.k5login\fR in their home directory. Each
line in this file should contain a Kerberos principal name of the form
\fIprincipal\fR/\fIinstance\fR@\fIrealm\fR. If there is a \fB~/.k5login\fR
file, then access is granted to the account if and only if the originater user
is authenticated to one of the principals named in the \fB~/.k5login\fR file.
Otherwise, the originating user is granted access to the account if and only if
the authenticated principal name of the user can be mapped to the local account
name using the \fIauthenticated-principal-name\fR \(-> \fIlocal-user-name\fR
mapping rules. The \fB\&.k5login\fR file (for access control) comes into play
only when Kerberos authentication is being done.
.SS "Metacharacters"
.sp
.LP
The shell meta-characters: \fB[\fR, \fB]\fR, \fB{\fR, \fB}\fR, \fB*\fR and
\fB?\fR are recognized and expanded (on the local host only) just as they are
with \fBcsh\fR(1). Metacharacters can be escaped by prepending a backslash.
.sp
.LP
The \fB~\fR character is also expanded in the same way as with \fBcsh\fR;
however, it is expanded separately on the local and destination hosts.
.SS "Filenames"
.sp
.LP
File names that do not begin with `\fB\|/\|\fR\&' or `\fB\|~\|\fR\&' are taken
to be relative to user's home directory on each destination host; they are
\fInot\fR relative to the current working directory. Multiple file names must
be enclosed within parentheses.
.SS "Primitives"
.sp
.LP
The following primitives can be used to specify actions \fBrdist\fR is to take
when updating remote copies of each file.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinstall\fR [\fB-b\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-i\fR] [\fB-R\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
[\fB-w\fR] [\fB-y\fR] [\fInewname\fR]\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Copy out of date files and directories (recursively). If no \fInewname\fR
operand is given, the name of the local file is given to the remote host's
copy. If absent from the remote host, parent directories in a filename's path
are created. To help prevent disasters, a non-empty directory on a target host
is not replaced with a regular file or a symbolic link by \fBrdist\fR. However,
when using the \fB-R\fR option, a non-empty directory is removed if the
corresponding filename is completely absent on the master host.
.sp
The options for \fBinstall\fR have the same semantics as their command line
counterparts, but are limited in scope to a particular map. The login name used
on the destination host is the same as the local host unless the destination
name is of the format \fIlogin@host\fR. In that case, the update is performed
under the username \fIlogin\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnotify\fR \fIaddress.\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Send mail to the indicated email \fIaddress\fR of the form:
.sp
\fIuser@host\fR
.sp
that lists the files updated and any errors that might have occurred. If an
address does not contain a `\fB@\fR\fIhost\|\fR' suffix, \fBrdist\fR uses the
name of the destination host to complete the address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBexcept\fR \fIfilename .\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Omit from updates the files named as arguments.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBexcept_pat\fR \fIpattern .\|.\|.\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Omit from updates the filenames that match each regular-expression
\fIpattern\fR (see \fBed\fR(1) for more information on regular expressions).
Note that \fB`\e'\fR and \fB`$'\fR characters must be escaped in the distfile.
Shell variables can also be used within a pattern, however shell filename
expansion is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBspecial\fR [\fIfilename\fR] .\|.\|. \fB"\fR\fIcommand-line\|\fR\fB"\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specify a Bourne shell, \fBsh\fR(1) command line to execute on the remote host
after each named file is updated. If no \fIfilename\fR argument is present, the
\fIcommand-line\fR is performed for every updated file, with the shell variable
\fBFILE\fR set to the file's name on the local host. The quotation marks allow
\fIcommand-line\fR to span input lines in the distfile; multiple shell commands
must be separated by semicolons (\fB;\fR).
.sp
The default working directory for the shell executing each \fIcommand-line\fR
is the user's home directory on the remote host.
.RE

.SS "IPv6"
.sp
.LP
The \fBrdist\fR command is IPv6-enabled. See \fBip6\fR(7P). \fBIPv6\fR is not
currently supported with Kerberos V5 authentication.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA Sample distfile
.sp
.LP
The following sample distfile instructs \fBrdist\fR to maintain identical
copies of a shared library, a shared-library initialized data file, several
include files, and a directory, on hosts named \fBhermes\fR and \fBmagus\fR. On
\fBmagus\fR, commands are executed as super-user. \fBrdist\fR notifies
\fBmerlin@druid\fR whenever it discovers that a local file has changed relative
to a timestamp file. (Parentheses are used when the source or destination list
contains zero or more names separated by white-space.)

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHOSTS = ( hermes root@magus )

FILES = ( /usr/local/lib/libcant.so.1.1
             /usrlocal/lib/libcant.sa.1.1 /usr/local/include/{*.h}
             /usr/local/bin )

(${FILES}) -> (${HOSTS})
      install \(miR ;
${FILES} :: /usr/local/lib/timestamp
            notify merlin@druid ;\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB~/.rhosts\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
User's trusted hosts and users
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/host.equiv\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
system trusted hosts and users
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/rdist*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Temporary file for update lists
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.k5login\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
File containing Kerberos principals that are allowed access
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/krb5/krb5.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Kerberos configuration file
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBed\fR(1), \fBmake\fR(1S), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBin.rshd\fR(1M),
\fBstat\fR(2), \fBhosts.equiv\fR(4), \fBkrb5.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBkrb5_auth_rules\fR(5), \fBip6\fR(7P)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
A complaint about mismatch of \fBrdist\fR version numbers might really stem
from some problem with starting your shell, for example, you are in too many
groups.
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The super-user does not have its accustomed access privileges on \fBNFS\fR
mounted file systems. Using \fBrdist\fR to copy to such a file system might
fail, or the copies might be owned by user "nobody".
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Source files must reside or be mounted on the local host.
.sp
.LP
There is no easy way to have a special command executed only once after all
files in a directory have been updated.
.sp
.LP
Variable expansion only works for name lists; there should be a general macro
facility.
.sp
.LP
\fBrdist\fR aborts on files that have a negative modification time (before Jan
1, 1970).
.sp
.LP
There should be a "force" option to allow replacement of non-empty directories
by regular files or symlinks. A means of updating file modes and owners of
otherwise identical files is also needed.
