.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH READ 1 "Dec 18, 2007"
.SH NAME
read \- read a line from standard input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/read\fR [\fB-r\fR] \fIvar\fR...
.fi

.SS "sh"
.LP
.nf
\fBread\fR \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SS "csh"
.LP
.nf
\fBset\fR \fIvariable\fR= $<
.fi

.SS "ksh"
.LP
.nf
\fBread\fR [\fB-prsu\fR [\fIn\fR]] [\fIname\fR ? \fIprompt\fR] [\fIname\fR]...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBread\fR [\fB-Aprs\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIdelim\fR] [\fB-n\fR \fInsize\fR] [\fB-N\fR \fInsize\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fItimeout\fR][\fB-u\fR \fIunit\fR] [\fIvname\fR\fB?\fR\fIprompt\fR] [\fIvname\fR... ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/read"
.sp
.LP
The \fBread\fR utility reads a single line from standard input.
.sp
.LP
By default, unless the \fB-r\fR option is specified, backslash (\fB\e\fR) acts
as an escape character. If standard input is a terminal device and the invoking
shell is interactive, \fBread\fR prompts for a continuation line when:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The shell reads an input line ending with a backslash, unless the \fB-r\fR
option is specified.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A here-document is not terminated after a \fBNEWLINE\fR character is entered.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The line is split into fields as in the shell. The first field is assigned to
the first variable \fIvar\fR, the second field to the second variable
\fIvar\fR, and so forth. If there are fewer \fIvar\fR operands specified than
there are fields, the leftover fields and their intervening separators is
assigned to the last \fIvar\fR. If there are fewer fields than \fIvar\fRs, the
remaining \fIvar\fRs is set to empty strings.
.sp
.LP
The setting of variables specified by the \fIvar\fR operands affects the
current shell execution environment. If it is called in a sub-shell or separate
utility execution environment, such as one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB(read foo)
nohup read ...
find . -exec read ... \e;\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
it does not affect the shell variables in the caller's environment.
.sp
.LP
The standard input must be a text file.
.SS "sh"
.sp
.LP
One line is read from the standard input and, using the internal field
separator, \fBIFS\fR (normally space or tab), to delimit word boundaries, the
first word is assigned to the first \fIname\fR, the second word to the second
\fIname\fR, and so on, with leftover words assigned to the last \fIname\fR.
Lines can be continued using \fB\enewline\fR\&. Characters other than
\fBNEWLINE\fR can be quoted by preceding them with a backslash. These
backslashes are removed before words are assigned to \fInames\fR, and no
interpretation is done on the character that follows the backslash. The return
code is \fB0\fR, unless an end-of-file is encountered.
.SS "csh"
.sp
.LP
The notation:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
set \fIvariable\fR \fB= $<\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
loads one line of standard input as the value for \fIvariable\fR. (See
\fBcsh\fR(1)).
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
The shell input mechanism. One line is read and is broken up into fields using
the characters in \fBIFS\fR as separators. The escape character, \fB(\e)\fR, is
used to remove any special meaning for the next character and for line
continuation. In raw mode, the \fB-r\fR, the \fB,\fR and the \fB\e\fR character
are not treated specially. The first field is assigned to the first \fIname\fR,
the second field to the second \fIname\fR, and so on, with leftover fields
assigned to the last \fIname\fR. The \fB-p\fR option causes the input line to
be taken from the input pipe of a process spawned by the shell using \fB|&\fR.
If the \fB-s\fR flag is present, the input is saved as a command in the history
file. The flag \fB-u\fR can be used to specify a one digit file descriptor unit
\fIn\fR to read from. The file descriptor can be opened with the \fBexec\fR
special command. The default value of \fIn\fR is \fB0\fR. If \fIname\fR is
omitted, \fBREPLY\fR is used as the default \fIname\fR. The exit status is
\fB0\fR unless the input file is not open for reading or an end-of-file is
encountered. An end-of-file with the \fB-p\fR option causes cleanup for this
process so that another can be spawned. If the first argument contains a
\fB?\fR, the remainder of this word is used as a \fIprompt\fR on standard error
when the shell is interactive. The exit status is \fB0\fR unless an end-of-file
is encountered.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
\fBread\fR reads a line from standard input and breaks it into fields using the
characters in the value of the \fBIFS\fR variable as separators. The escape
character, \fB\e\fR, is used to remove any special meaning for the next
character and for line continuation unless the \fB-r\fR option is specified.
.sp
.LP
If there are more variables than fields, the remaining variables are set to
empty strings. If there are fewer variables than fields, the leftover fields
and their intervening separators are assigned to the last variable. If no
\fIvar\fR is specified, the variable \fBREPLY\fR is used.
.sp
.LP
When \fIvar\fR has the binary attribute and \fB-n\fR or \fB-N\fR is specified,
the bytes that are read are stored directly into \fIvar\fR.
.sp
.LP
If you specify \fB?\fR\fIprompt\fR after the first \fIvar\fR, \fBread\fR
displays a prompt on standard error when standard input is a terminal or pipe.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/read, ksh"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported by \fB/usr/bin/read\fR and \fBksh\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Do not treat a backslash character in any special way. Considers each backslash
to be part of the input line.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Unset \fIvar\fR, and create an indexed array containing each field in the line
starting at index \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdelim\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Read until delimiter \fIdelim\fR instead of to the end of line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fInsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Read at most \fInsize\fR bytes. Binary field size is in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-N\fR \fInsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Read exactly \fInsize\fR bytes. Binary field size is in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Read from the current co-process instead of standard input. An end of file
causes \fBread\fR to disconnect the co-process so that another can be created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Do not treat \fB\e\fR specially when processing the input line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Save a copy of the input as an entry in the shell history file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fItimeout\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Specify a \fItimeout\fR in seconds when reading from a terminal or pipe.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR \fIfd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Read from file descriptor number \fIfd\fR instead of standard input. The
default value is \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
When reading from a terminal, display the value of the first variable and use
it as a default value.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
The name of an existing or non-existing shell variable.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing the \fBread\fR Command
.sp
.LP
The following example for \fB/usr/bin/read\fR prints a file with the first
field of each line moved to the end of the line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBwhile read -r xx yy
do
        printf "%s %s\en" "$yy" "$xx"
done < input_file\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBread\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Determines the internal field separators used to delimit fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPS2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Provides the prompt string that an interactive shell writes to standard error
when a line ending with a backslash is read and the \fB-r\fR option was not
specified, or if a here-document is not terminated after a NEWLINE character is
entered.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
End-of-file was detected or an error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/read, csh, ksh, sh"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBline\fR(1), \fBset\fR(1),
\fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
