'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH REFER 1 "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
refer \- expand and insert references from a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrefer\fR [\fB-ben\fR] [\fB-a\fR\fIr\fR] [\fB-c\fR\fIstring\fR] [\fB-k\fR\fIx\fR] [\fB-l\fR\fIm,n\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIfilename\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR\fIkeys\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrefer\fR is a preprocessor for \fBnroff\fR(1), or \fBtroff\fR(1), that finds
and formats references. The input files (standard input by default) are copied
to the standard output, except for lines between `\fB\&.\|[\fR' and
`\fB\&.\|]\fR' command lines, Such lines are assumed to contain keywords as for
\fBlookbib\fR(1), and are replaced by information from a bibliographic data
base.  The user can avoid the search, override fields from it, or add new
fields. The reference data, from whatever source, is assigned to a set of
\fBtroff\fR strings.  Macro packages such as \fBms\fR(5) print the finished
reference text from these strings.  A flag is placed in the text at the point
of reference. By default, the references are indicated by numbers.
.sp
.LP
When \fBrefer\fR is used with \fBeqn\fR(1), \fBneqn\fR, or \fBtbl\fR(1),
\fBrefer\fR should be used first in the sequence, to minimize the volume of
data passed through pipes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Bare mode \(em do not put any flags in text (neither numbers or labels).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Accumulate references instead of leaving the references where encountered,
until a sequence of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\&.[
$LIST$
\&.]\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

is encountered, and then write out all references collected so far. Collapse
references to the same source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Do not search the default file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fIr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Reverse the first \fIr\fR author names (Jones, J. A. instead of J. A. Jones).
If \fIr\fR is omitted, all author names are reversed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fIstring\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Capitalize (with SMALL CAPS) the fields whose key-letters are in \fIstring\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fIx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Instead of numbering references, use labels as specified in a reference data
line beginning with the characters \fI%x\fR; By default, \fIx\fR is \fBL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fIm,n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Instead of numbering references, use labels from the senior author's last name
and the year of publication.  Only the first \fIm\fR letters of the last name
and the last \fIn\fR digits of the date are used.  If either of \fIm\fR or
\fIn\fR is omitted, the entire name or date, respectively, is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fI filename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Take the next argument as a file of references to be searched.  The default
file is searched last.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fIkeys\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Sort references by fields whose key-letters are in the \fIkeys\fR string, and
permute reference numbers in the text accordingly. Using this option implies
the \fB-e\fR option. The key-letters in \fIkeys\fR may be followed by a number
indicating how many such fields are used, with a \fB+\fR sign taken as a very
large number.  The default is \fB\fR\fBAD\fR\fB,\fR which sorts on the senior
author and date. To sort on all authors and then the date, for instance, use
the options `\fB-sA+T\fR'.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/refer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
directory of programs
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/refer/papers\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
directory of default publication lists and indexes
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaddbib\fR(1), \fBeqn\fR(1), \fBindxbib\fR(1), \fBlookbib\fR(1),
\fBnroff\fR(1), \fBroffbib\fR(1), \fBsortbib\fR(1), \fBtbl\fR(1),
\fBtroff\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
