.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd March 28, 2026
.Dt RMDIR 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rmdir
.Nd remove directories
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /usr/bin/rmdir
.Op Fl ps
.Ar dirname
.Ss "ksh93"
.Nm /usr/bin/rmdir
.Op Fl eps
.Ar dirname ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility removes the directory entry specified by each
.Ar dirname
operand, which must refer to an empty directory.
.Pp
Directories are processed in the order specified.
If a directory and a subdirectory of that directory are specified in a single
invocation of
.Nm rmdir ,
the subdirectory must be specified before the parent directory so that the
parent directory is empty when
.Nm rmdir
tries to remove it.
.Ss "ksh93"
The
.Nm rmdir
built-in in
.Nm ksh93
is associated with the
.Pa /bin
and
.Pa /usr/bin
paths.
It is invoked when
.Nm rmdir
is executed without a pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a
.Pa /bin/rmdir
or
.Pa /usr/bin/rmdir
executable.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported for both
.Nm /usr/bin/rmdir
and
.Nm ksh93 rmdir :
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl p
Allows users to remove the directory
.Ar dirname
and its parent directories which become empty.
A message is printed to standard error if all or part of the path could not be
removed.
.It Fl s
Suppresses the message printed on the standard error when
.Fl p
is in effect.
.El
.Ss "ksh93"
The following options are supported for the
.Nm rmdir
built-in for
.Nm ksh93 :
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl e , Fl -ignore-fail-on-non-empty
Ignore each non-empty directory failure.
.It Fl -parents
Long option for
.Fl p .
.It Fl -suppress
Long option for
.Fl s .
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ar dirname
Specifies the pathname of an empty directory to be removed.
.El
.Sh USAGE
See
.Xr largefile 7
for the description of the behavior of
.Nm rmdir
when encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte (2^31 bytes).
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy 0
All the existing named directory entries were removed.
.It Sy >0
An error occurred.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1 No Removing Empty Directories
.Pp
If a directory
.Pa a
in the current directory is empty, except that it contains a directory
.Pa b ,
and
.Pa a/b
is empty except that it contains a directory
.Pa c ,
the following command removes all three directories:
.Pp
.Dl example% rmdir -p a/b/c
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Pp
.Nm ksh93
built-in binding to
.Pa /bin
and
.Pa /usr/bin
is Volatile.
The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ksh93 1 ,
.Xr rm 1 ,
.Xr unlink 2 ,
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr largefile 7 ,
.Xr standards 7
