'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RMMOUNT 1 "Sep 18, 2006"
.SH NAME
rmmount, rmumount \- mounts and unmounts removable media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrmmount\fR  [\fB-u\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR] [\fInickname\fR | \fIdevice\fR] [\fImount_point\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmmount\fR  [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmumount\fR  [\fInickname\fR | \fImount_point\fR | \fIdevice\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrmumount\fR  [\fB-d\fR] [\fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrmmount\fR and \fBrmumount\fR utilities mount and unmount removable or
hot-pluggable volumes. The optional argument can identify the volume by its
volume label, mount point or block device path.
.sp
.LP
\fBrmmount\fR can also take additional mount options if the user has sufficient
privileges to override the default mount options.
.sp
.LP
Unmounting removable media does not result in its ejection. Use \fBeject\fR(1)
to optionally unmount and eject the media.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for \fBrmmount\fR and \fBrmumount\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display the device path of the default device. This device is used if no
arguments are supplied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display the paths and nicknames of mountable devices.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options are supported for \fBrmmount\fR only:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIoptions\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Display mount options. This option can only be used by users that have
privileges to override the system default options.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Unmounts the volume as opposed to mounting it.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdevice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies which device to mount or unmount, by the name it appears in the
directory \fB/dev\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImount_point\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies which device to mount or unmount, by the name it appears in the
directory \fB/dev\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInickname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specifies which device to mount or unmount, by its nickname as known to  this
command.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRMounting a USB disk
.sp
.LP
The following example mounts a USB disk with a volume label of \fBPHOTOS\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rmmount PHOTOS
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUnmounting a \fBpcfs\fR Volume
.sp
.LP
The following example unmounts a \fBpcfs\fR volume by device path:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% rmumount /dev/dsk/c4t0d0p0:1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB>\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/media\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Default mount root.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBeject\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
