'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ROFFBIB 1 "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
roffbib \- format and print a bibliographic database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBroffbib\fR [\fB-e\fR] [\fB-h\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIfilename\fR] [\fB-n\fR\fIp\fR] [\fB-o\fR\fIlist\fR] [\fB-Q\fR] [\fB-r\fR\fIaN\fR]
     [\fB-s\fR\fIN\fR] [\fB-T\fR\fIterm\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fIfilename\fR] ...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBroffbib\fR prints out all records in a bibliographic database, in
bibliography format rather than as footnotes or endnotes. Generally it is used
in conjunction with \fBsortbib\fR(1):
.sp
.LP
\fBexample%\fR \fBsortbib\fR \fBdatabase\fR \fB|\fR \fBroffbib\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
\fBroffbib\fR accepts all options understood by \fBnroff\fR(1) except \fB-i\fR
and \fB-q\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Produce equally-spaced words in adjusted lines using full terminal resolution.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Use output tabs during horizontal spacing to speed output and reduce output
character count. \fBTAB\fR settings are assumed to be every 8 nominal character
widths.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI filename\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Prepend the macro file \fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.name\fR to the input files.
There should be a space between the \fB-m\fR and the macro filename. This set
of macros will replace the ones defined in \fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.bib\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fIp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Number first generated page \fIp\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fIlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Print only page numbers that appear in the comma-separated \fIlist\fR of
numbers and ranges. A range \fIN\fR\fB\(mi\fR\fIM\fR means pages \fIN\fR
through \fIM\fR; an initial \fB-\fR\fIN\fR means from the beginning to page
\fIN\fR; a final \fIN\fR\fB\(mi\fR means from page \fIN\fR to end.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Q\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Queue output for the phototypesetter.  Page offset is set to 1 inch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fIaN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Set register \fIa\fR (one-character) to \fIN\fR. The command-line argument
\fB-rN1\fR will number the references starting at 1.
.sp
Four command-line registers control formatting style of the bibliography, much
like the number registers of \fBms\fR(5). The flag \fB-rV2\fR will double space
the bibliography, while \fB-rV1\fR will double space references but single
space annotation paragraphs. The line length can be changed from the default
6.5 inches to 6 inches with the \fB-rL6i\fR argument, and the page offset can
be set from the default of 0 to one inch by specifying \fB-rO1i\fR (capital O,
not zero).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Halt prior to every \fIN\fR pages for paper loading or changing (default
\fIN\fR\|=1). To resume, enter \fBNEWLINE\fR or \fBRETURN.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fIterm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify \fIterm\fR as the terminal type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Send output to the Versatec.  Page offset is set to 1 inch.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
If abstracts or comments are entered following the \fB%X\fR field key,
\fBroffbib\fR will format them into paragraphs for an annotated bibliography.
Several \fB%X\fR fields may be given if several annotation paragraphs are
desired.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/tmac.bib\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
file of macros used by \fBnroff/troff\fR
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaddbib\fR(1), \fBindxbib\fR(1), \fBlookbib\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1)
\fBrefer\fR(1), \fBsortbib\fR(1), \fBtroff\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Users have to rewrite macros to create customized formats.
