'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RUP 1 "Mar 7, 2003"
.SH NAME
rup \- show host status of remote machines (RPC version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBrup\fR [\fB-hlt\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBrup\fR [\fIhost\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrup\fR gives a status similar to \fBuptime\fR for remote machines. It
broadcasts on the local network, and displays the responses it receives.
.sp
.LP
Normally, the listing is in the order that responses are received, but this
order can be changed by specifying one of the options listed below.
.sp
.LP
When \fIhost\fR arguments are given, rather than broadcasting \fBrup\fR will
only query the list of specified hosts.
.sp
.LP
A remote host will only respond if it is running the \fBrstatd\fR daemon, which
is normally started up from \fBinetd\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
In the absence of a name service, such as LDAP or NIS, \fBrup\fR displays host
names as numeric IP addresses.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Sort the display alphabetically by host name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Sort the display by load average.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Sort the display by up time.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBruptime\fR(1), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Express Installation Guide: Basic Installations\fR
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
Broadcasting does not work through gateways.
