'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MAILQ 1 "Jul 10, 2002"
.SH NAME
mailq \- print the mail queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/mailq\fR [\fB-Ac\fR] [\fB-q\fR \fIsubarg\fR] [\fB-v\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmailq\fR utility displays a summary of the mail messages queued for
future delivery.
.sp
.LP
The first line displayed for each mail message shows the internal identifier
used on this host for the message, the size of the message in bytes, the date
and time the message was accepted into the queue, and the envelope sender of
the message. The second line of the display shows the error message that caused
this message to be retained in the queue. This line will not be displayed if
the message is being processed for the first time.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmailq\fR utility used to be identical to \fBsendmail\fR \fB-bp\fR. Now
it checks for the authorization attribute, \fBsolaris.mail.mailq\fR. If the
check for the invoking user succeeds, \fBsendmail\fR \fB-bp\fR is executed with
the remaining argument vector. Otherwise, an error message is printed. This
authorization attribute is by default enabled for all users. It can be disabled
by modifying the Basic Solaris User entry in \fBprof_attr\fR(4).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Ac\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Like \fBsendmail\fR(1M), this flag tells \fBmailq\fR to use \fBsubmit.cf\fR
rather than \fBsendmail.cf\fR even  if  the  operation  mode  does  not
indicate an initial mail submission. This will result in the client queue
\fB/var/spool/clientmqueue\fR being displayed rather than the default server
queue \fB/var/spool/mqueue\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fBp\fR[\fItime\fR] \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Similar to \fB-q\fR\fItime\fR, except that instead of periodically forking a
child to process the queue, \fBsendmail\fR forks a single persistent child for
each queue that alternates between processing the queue and sleeping. The sleep
time is given as the argument. The sleep time default is \fB1\fR second. The
process will always sleep at least 5 seconds if the queue was empty in the
previous queue run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fBf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Processes saved  messages in the queue once and does not \fBfork()\fR, but runs
in the foreground.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fBG\fR \fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Processes jobs in the queue group called \fIname\fR only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR[\fB!\fR]\fBI\fR \fIsubstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Limits processed jobs to those containing \fIsubstr\fR as a substring of the
queue id, or not when \fB!\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR[\fB!\fR]\fBR\fR \fIsubstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Limits processed jobs to those containing \fIsubstr\fR as a substring of one of
the recipients, or not when \fB!\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR[\fB!\fR]\fBS\fR \fIsubstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Limits processed jobs to those containing \fIsubstr\fR as a substring of the
sender, or not when \fB!\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Prints verbose information. This adds the priority of the message and a single
character indicator (\fB+\fR or blank) indicating  whether a warning message
has been sent on the first line of the message. Additionally, extra lines may
be intermixed with the recipients that indicate the "controlling user"
information. This shows who will own any programs that are executed on behalf
of this message and the name of the alias this command is expanded from, if
any.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/prof_attr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
local source for execution profile attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/mqueue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
default server queue
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/clientmqueue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
client queue
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsendmail\fR(1M), \fBprof_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
