'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIZE 1 "Aug 24, 2009"
.SH NAME
size \- print section sizes in bytes of object files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsize\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-F\fR] [\fB-n\fR] [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-V\fR] [\fB-x\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsize\fR command produces segment or section size information in bytes
for each loaded section in ELF object files. \fBsize\fR prints out  the size of
the text, data, and bss (uninitialized data) segments (or  sections) and their
total.
.sp
.LP
\fBsize\fR processes ELF object files entered on the command line. If an
archive file is input to the \fBsize\fR command, the information for each
object file in the archive is displayed.
.sp
.LP
When calculating segment information, the \fBsize\fR command prints out the
total file size of the non-writable segments, the total file size of the
writable segments, and the total memory size of the writable segments minus the
total  file size of the writable segments.
.sp
.LP
If it cannot calculate segment information, \fBsize\fR calculates section
information. When calculating section  information, it prints out the total
size of sections that are allocatable,  non-writable, and not \fBNOBITS\fR, the
total size of the sections that are allocatable,  writable, and not
\fBNOBITS\fR, and the total size of the writable sections of type \fBNOBITS\fR.
\fBNOBITS\fR sections do not actually take up space in the \fIfilename\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fBsize\fR cannot calculate either segment or section information, it
prints an error message and stops processing the file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints out the size of each allocatable section, the name of the section, and
the total of the section sizes. If there is no section data, \fBsize\fR prints
out an error message and stops processing the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints out the size of each loadable segment, the permission  flags of the
segment, then the total of the loadable segment sizes. If there is no segment
data, \fBsize\fR prints an error message and stops processing the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints out non-loadable segment or non-allocatable section sizes. If segment
data exists, \fBsize\fR prints out the memory size of each loadable segment or
file size of each non-loadable segment, the permission flags, and the total
size of the segments. If there is no segment data, \fBsize\fR prints out, for
each allocatable and non-allocatable section, the memory size, the section
name,  and the total size of the sections. If there is no segment or section
data, \fBsize\fR prints an error message and stops processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints numbers in octal, not decimal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints the version information for the \fBsize\fR command on the standard error
output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints numbers in hexadecimal, not decimal.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The examples below are typical \fBsize\fR output.
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRProducing size information
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsize \fIfilename\fR\fR
2724 + 88 + 0 = 2812
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRProducing allocatable section size information
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsize -f \fIfilename\fR\fR
26(.text) + 5(.init) + 5(.fini) = 36
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRProducing loadable segment size information
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBsize -F \fIfilename\fR\fR
2724(r-x) + 88(rwx) + 0(rwx) = 2812 ... \fI(If statically linked)\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBas\fR(1), \fBld\fR(1), \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBa.out\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Since the size of bss sections is not known until link-edit time, the
\fBsize\fR command will not give the true total size of pre-linked objects.
