'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Right Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright 1994-2008 The FreeBSD Project. All rights reserved.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\" disclaimer. 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE FREEBSD PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE FREEBSD PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
.\" OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.TH SMBUTIL 1 "Jun 24, 2009"
.SH NAME
smbutil \- Solaris CIFS client utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil crypt\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil login [-c] [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil login [-c] [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logout [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logout [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logout -a\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil logoutall\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil lookup \fIname\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil status \fIserver\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil view [-A | -U \fIuser\fR] //[\fIdomain\fR;][\fIuser\fR[:\fIpassword\fR]@]\fIserver\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/smbutil [\fB-?dv\fR]\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsmbutil\fR command controls the Solaris CIFS client and issues various
commands.
.SS "Subcommands"
.sp
.LP
The \fBsmbutil\fR command supports the following subcommands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcrypt\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Creates a hash of a password. This subcommand prompts for a password and writes
the hash to standard output. This hash value is suitable for use as a value for
the \fBpassword\fR property in the \fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR file.
.sp
The hashed password begins with two dollar signs (\fB$$\fR). If you assign this
hashed password to the \fBpassword\fR property in your \fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR, be
sure that you escape the special characters in the password.
.sp
If you plan to store hashed passwords in your \fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR file, ensure
that the file permissions are set so that only the owner can read or write the
file (\fB400\fR or \fB600\fR), or the passwords are ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlogin [-c] [ [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR] | [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR]
]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies persistent password information to be used for a CIFS server user
account. When you specify this information, mounts can be done without a
password prompt in non-Kerberos configurations. Kerberos sites should use
Kerberos automatically, not prompt for a password. If a default domain is
available in SMF or \fBnsmbrc\fR(4), the domain can be omitted. If a user name
is not specified, the Solaris user account name is used.
.sp
Use the \fB-c\fR to check whether a persistent password is set for the
specified user.
.sp
Passwords can also be stored for a specific server by using a server name in
place of the domain name. This capability is useful with servers that are
configured for "workgroup mode."
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlogout [ [[\fIdomain\fR/]\fIuser\fR] | [\fIuser\fR[@\fIdomain\fR] ]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erases the persistent passwords for the user running the command.
.sp
The user name and domain name portions of the name are optional. If these names
are not specified, the user name and domain name values are taken from the
properties set in your environment. See the \fBnsmbrc\fR(4) manual page.
.sp
If you stored your password for a specific server, specify the server name in
place of the domain name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlogout -a\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erases all of the persistent passwords that are stored for the user who is
running the command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlogoutall\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Erases all the persistent passwords that are stored by all users running the
\fBsmbutil login\fR command.
.sp
This command must be run as superuser.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlookup \fIname\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resolves the specified \fIname\fR to an IP address.
.sp
This subcommand is only supported if an NBNS/WINS name server is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstatus \fIserver\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Resolves the specified server to the NetBIOS domain and system name.
\fIserver\fR can be an IP address or a DNS name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBview [-A | -U \fIuser\fR]
//[\fIdomain\fR;][\fIuser\fR[:\fIpassword\fR]@]\fIserver\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lists the resources available to \fIuser\fR on the specified \fIserver\fR.
.sp
You can specify the \fB-A\fR option to view the resources as an anonymous user
or the \fB-U\fR \fIuser\fR option to view the resources as the specified user.
These options are mutually exclusive.
.sp
If the resource includes a domain, you must escape the semicolon that appears
after the domain name to prevent it from being interpreted by the command
shell. For instance, surround the entire resource name with single quotes:
\fBsmbutil view '//SALES;george@RSERVER'\fR.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following global options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Produces debugging output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Produces verbose output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Prints a short help message.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCreating a Password Hash for the \fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR File
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil crypt\fR command to
create a hash of the password you specify. Then, you can use the hash as the
value for the \fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR file.

.sp
.LP
Be sure to escape the two dollar-sign prefix of the hashed password if you
store it as a value of the \fBpassword\fR property.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil crypt\fR
Password:
$$178465324253e0c07
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The following \fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR file fragment shows how the password hash
value is set:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
[RSERVER:george]
charsets=koi8-r:cp866
password='$$178465324253e0c07'
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRStoring a Password for a CIFS Server
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil login\fR command to store
the \fBroot@example\fR user's password.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil login root@example\fR
Password:
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRErasing the Stored Password
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil logout\fR command to
remove the \fBroot@example\fR user's password.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil logout root@example\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRViewing Available Shares
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil view\fR command to see
the available shares for user \fBroot\fR on server \fBexample\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil view //root@example\fR
Password:
Share        Type       Comment
-------------------------------
netlogon     disk       Network Logon Service
ipc$         IPC        IPC Service (Samba Server)
tmp          disk       Temporary file space
public       disk       Public Stuff
root         disk       Home Directories

5 shares listed from 5 available
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRViewing Available Shares as an Anonymous User
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil view\fR command to
anonymously view the available shares on the \fBexample\fR server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil view -A //example\fR
Share        Type       Comment
-------------------------------
netlogon     disk       Network Logon Service
ipc$         IPC        IPC Service (Samba Server)
tmp          disk       Temporary file space
public       disk       Public Stuff
ethereal     disk       /export/ethereal
myshare      disk       Jan's stuff

6 shares listed from 6 available
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRObtaining the IP Address From a Server Name
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil lookup\fR command to
obtain the IP address of the \fBexample\fR server.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil lookup example\fR
Got response from 192.168.168.210
IP address of example: 192.168.168.210
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 7 \fRObtaining the NetBIOS Domain and System Name Using the Server
Name
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil status\fR command to
obtain the NetBIOS domain and system name of the \fBexample\fR server. The
server name, \fBexample\fR, is specified on the command line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil status example\fR
Domain: WORKGROUP
Server: EXAMPLE
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 8 \fRObtaining the NetBIOS Domain and System Name Using the IP
Address
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use the \fBsmbutil status\fR command to
obtain the NetBIOS domain and system name of the \fBexample\fR server. The IP
address, \fB192.168.168.210\fR, is specified on the command line.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
$ \fBsmbutil status 192.168.168.210\fR
Domain: WORKGROUP
Server: EXAMPLE
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.nsmbrc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
User-settable mount point configuration file to store the description for each
connection.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The output is Uncommitted. The rest of the interface is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmount_smbfs\fR(1M), \fBnsmbrc\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmbfs\fR(7FS)
.SH AUTHORS
.sp
.LP
This manual page contains material originally authored by Boris Popov,
\fBbp@butya.kz\fR, \fBbp@FreeBSD.org\fR.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The Solaris CIFS client always attempts to use \fBgethostbyname()\fR to resolve
host names. If the host name cannot be resolved, the CIFS client uses NetBIOS
name resolution (NBNS). By default, the Solaris CIFS client permits the use of
NBNS to enable Solaris CIFS clients in Windows environments to work without
additional configuration.
.sp
.LP
Since NBNS has been exploited in the past, you might want to disable it. To
disable NBNS, set the \fBnbns-enabled\fR service management facility property
to \fBfalse\fR. By default, \fBnbns-enabled\fR is set to \fBtrue\fR.
