'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SOTRUSS 1 "May 12, 1997"
.SH NAME
sotruss \- trace shared library procedure calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/sotruss\fR [\fB-f\fR] [\fB-F\fR \fIbindfromlist\fR] [\fB-T\fR \fIbindtolist\fR]
     [\fB-o\fR \fIoutputfile\fR] executable [executable arguments...]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsotruss\fR executes the specified command and produces a trace of the
library calls that it performs. Each line of the trace output reports what
bindings are occurring between dynamic objects as each procedure call is
executed. \fBsotruss\fR traces all of the procedure calls that occur between
dynamic objects via the \fIProcedure Linkage Table\fR, so only those procedure
calls which are bound via the \fIProcedure\fR \fILinkage\fR \fITable\fR will be
traced. See \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR\fI bindfromlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A colon-separated list of libraries that are to be traced.  Only calls from
these libraries will be traced.  The default is to trace calls from the main
executable only.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR\fI bindtolist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A colon-separated list of libraries that are to be traced. Only calls to these
libraries will be traced.  The default is to trace all calls.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fI outputfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
\fBsotruss\fR output will be directed to the \fIoutputfile\fR. If this option
is combined with the  \fB-f\fR option then the  \fIpid\fR of the executing
program will be placed at the end of the filename. By default \fBsotruss\fR
output is placed on  \fBstderr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Follow all children created by  \fBfork()\fR and print  \fBtruss\fR output on
each child process.  This option will also cause a  \fIpid\fR to be output on
each \fBtruss\fR output line.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRAn example of \fBsotruss\fR.
.sp
.LP
A simple example shows the tracing of a simple \fBls\fR command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
% sotruss ls | more
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*atexit(0xef7d7d1c, 0x23c00, 0x0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*atexit(0x1392c, 0xef7d7d1c, 0xef621bb0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*setlocale(0x6, 0x1396c, 0xef621ba8)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*textdomain(0x13970, 0x1396c, 0xef621ba8)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*time(0x0, 0xef61f6fc, 0xef621ba8)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*isatty(0x1, 0xef61f6fc, 0x0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*getopt(0x1, 0xeffff8fc, 0x13980)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*malloc(0x100, 0x0, 0x0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*malloc(0x9000, 0x0, 0x0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*lstat64(0x23ee8, 0xeffff7a0, 0x0)
\&...
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*printf(0x13a64, 0x26208, 0x23ef0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*printf(0x13a64, 0x26448, 0x23ef0)
ls       ->     libc.so.1:*exit(0x0, 0x24220, 0x2421c)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBld.so.1\fR(1), \fBtruss\fR(1), \fBwhocalls\fR(1), \fBfork\fR(2),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
