'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SRCHTXT 1 "Dec 20, 1996"
.SH NAME
srchtxt \- display contents of, or search for a text string in, message data
bases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsrchtxt\fR [\fB-s\fR] [\fB-l\fR \fIlocale\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fImsgfile\fR ,...] [\fItext\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsrchtxt\fR utility is used to display all the text strings in message
data bases, or to search for a text string in message data bases (see
\fBmkmsgs\fR(1)). These data bases are files in the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fR\fIlocale\fR\fB/LC_MESSAGES\fR (see \fBsetlocale\fR(3C)),
unless a file name given with the \fB-m\fR option contains a \fB/\fR. The
directory \fBlocale\fR can be viewed as the name of the language in which the
text strings are written. If the \fB-l\fR option is not specified, the files
accessed will be determined by the value of the environment variable
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR. If \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR is not set, the files accessed will be
determined by the value of the environment variable \fBLANG\fR. If \fBLANG\fR
is not set, the files accessed will be in the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES\fR, which contains default strings.
.sp
.LP
If no \fItext\fR argument is present, then all the text strings in the files
accessed will be displayed.
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-s\fR option is not specified, the displayed text is prefixed by
message sequence numbers. The message sequence numbers are enclosed in angle
brackets: \fB<\fR\fImsgfile\fR\fB:\fR\fImsgnum\fR\fB>.\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImsgfile\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
name of the file where the displayed text occurred
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImsgnum\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
sequence number in \fImsgfile\fR where the displayed text occurred
.RE

.sp
.LP
This display is in the format used by \fBgettxt\fR(1) and \fBgettxt\fR(3C).
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Suppress printing of the message sequence numbers of the messages being
displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fI locale\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Access files in the directory
\fB/usr/lib/locale/\fR\fIlocale\fR\fB/LC_MESSAGES\fR. If \fB-m\fR \fImsgfile\fR
is also supplied, \fIlOCALE\fR is ignored for \fImsgfile\fRs containing a
\fB/\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI msgfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Access files specified by one or more \fImsgfile\fRs. If \fImsgfile\fR contains
a \fB/\fR character, then \fImsgfile\fR \fIis\fR interpreted as a pathname;
otherwise, it will be assumed to be in the directory determined as described
above. To specify more than one \fImsgfile\fR, separate the file names using
commas.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItext\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Search for the text string specified by \fItext\fR and display each one that
matches. \fItext\fR can take the form of a regular expression; see
\fBregexp\fR(5).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBsrchtxt\fR
.sp
.LP
If message files have been installed in a locale named \fBfrench\fR by using
\fBmkmsgs\fR(1), then you could display the entire set of text strings in the
\fBfrench\fR locale (\fB/usr/lib/locale/french/LC_MESSAGES/*\fR) by typing:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% srchtxt \(mil french
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUsing \fBsrchtxt\fR
.sp
.LP
If a set of error messages associated with the operating system have been
installed in the file \fBUX\fR in the \fBfrench\fR locale
(\fB/usr/lib/locale/french/LC_MESSAGE/UX\fR), then, using the value of the
\fBLANG\fR environment variable to determine the locale to be searched, you
could search that file in that locale for all error messages dealing with files
by typing:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% setenv LANG=french; export  LANG
example% srchtxt -m UX "[Ff]ichier"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If \fB/usr/lib/locale/french/LC_MESSAGES/UX\fR contained the following
strings:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Erreur E/S\en
Liste d'arguments trop longue\en
Fichier inexistant\en
Argument invalide\en
Trop de fichiers ouverts\en
Fichier trop long\en
Trop de liens\en
Argument hors du domaine\en
Identificateur supprim\en
Etreinte fatale\en
  .
  .
  .
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
then the following strings would be displayed:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
<UX:3>Fichier inexistant\en
<UX:5>Trop de fichiers ouverts\en
<UX:6>Fichier trop long\en
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing \fBsrchtxt\fR
.sp
.LP
If a set of error messages associated with the operating system have been
installed in the file \fBUX\fR and a set of error messages associated with the
INGRESS data base product have been installed in the file \fBingress\fR, both
in the \fBgerman\fR locale, then you could search for the pattern
\fB[Dd]atei\fR in both the files \fBUX\fR and \fBingress\fR in the \fBgerman\fR
locale by typing:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% srchtxt -l german -m UX,ingress "[Dd]atei"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for a description of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR environment
variable that affects the execution of \fBsrchtxt\fR.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/locale/C/LC_MESSAGES/* \fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
default files created by \fBmkmsgs\fR(1)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/locale/locale/LC_MESSAGES/* \fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
message files created by \fBmkmsgs\fR(1)
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBexstr\fR(1), \fBgettxt\fR(1), \fBlocale\fR(1), \fBmkmsgs\fR(1),
\fBgettxt\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBlocale\fR(5), \fBregexp\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
The error messages produced by \fBsrchtxt\fR are intended to be
self-explanatory. They indicate an error in the command line or errors
encountered while searching for a particular locale and/or message file.
