'\" te
.\" To view license terms, attribution, and copyright for OpenSSH, the default path is /var/sadm/pkg/SUNWsshdr/install/copyright. If the Solaris operating environment has been installed anywhere other than the default, modify the given path to access the file at the
.\" installed location.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH SSH-ADD 1 "May 20, 2009"
.SH NAME
ssh-add \- add RSA or DSA identities to the authentication agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssh-add\fR [\fB-lLdDxX\fR] [\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR] [ \fIfile\fR ]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBssh-add\fR utility adds \fBRSA\fR or \fBDSA\fR identities to the
authentication agent, \fBssh-agent\fR(1). When run without arguments, it
attempts to add all of the files \fB$HOME/.ssh/identity\fR (RSA v1),
\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa\fR (RSA v2), and \fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa\fR (DSA v2) that
exist. If more than one of the private keys exists, an attempt to decrypt each
with the same passphrase is made before reprompting for a different passphrase.
The passphrase is read from the user's tty or by running the program defined in
\fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR (see below).
.sp
.LP
The authentication agent must be running.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Instead of adding the identity, this option \fBremoves\fR the identity from the
agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Deletes all identities from the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Lists fingerprints of all identities currently represented by the agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Lists public key parameters of all identities currently represented by the
agent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR \fIlife\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Sets a maximum lifetime when adding identities to an agent. The lifetime can be
specified in seconds or in a time format specified in \fBsshd\fR(1M).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Locks the agent with a password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Unlocks the agent.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDISPLAY\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
If \fBssh-add\fR needs a passphrase, it reads the passphrase from the current
terminal if it was run from a terminal. If \fBssh-add\fR does not have a
terminal associated with it but \fBDISPLAY\fR and \fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR are set, it
executes the program specified by \fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR and open an X11 window to
read the passphrase. This is particularly useful when calling \fBssh-add\fR
from a .Xsession or related script. The system is shipped with
\fB/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-askpass\fR which is the default value for
\fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSSH_AUTH_SOCK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Identifies the path of a unix-domain socket used to communicate with the agent.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.LP
These files should not be readable by anyone but the user. Notice that
\fBssh-add\fR ignores a file if it is accessible by others. It is possible to
specify a passphrase when generating the key; that passphrase is used to
encrypt the private part of this file.
.sp
.LP
If these files are stored on a network file system it is assumed that either
the protection provided in the file themselves or the transport layer of the
network file system provides sufficient protection for the site policy. If this
is not the case, then it is recommended the key files are stored on removable
media or locally on the relevant hosts.
.sp
.LP
Recommended names for the \fBDSA\fR and \fBRSA\fR key files:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/identity\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user for protocol version
1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/identity.pub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the public part of the \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user
for protocol version 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the private \fBDSA\fR authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_dsa.pub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the public part of the DSA authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the private \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the public part of the \fBRSA\fR authentication identity of the user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-askpass\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Contains the default value for SSH_ASKPASS.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBssh\fR(1), \fBssh-agent\fR(1), \fBssh-keygen\fR(1), \fBsshd\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
