'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SSH-HTTP-PROXY-CONNECT 1 "Oct 24, 2001"
.SH NAME
ssh-http-proxy-connect \- Secure Shell proxy for HTTP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect\fR [\fB-h\fR \fIhttp_proxy_host\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIhttp_proxy_port\fR] \fIconnect_host\fR \fIconnect_port\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
A proxy command for \fBssh\fR(1) that uses HTTP CONNECT. Typical use is where
connections external to a network are only allowed via a proxy web server.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR \fIhttp_proxy_host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Specifies the proxy web server through which to connect. Overrides the
\fBHTTPPROXY\fR and \fBhttp_proxy\fR environment variables if they are set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIhttp_proxy_port\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Specifies the port on which the proxy web server runs. If not specified, port
80 is assumed. Overrides the \fBHTTPPROXYPORT\fR and \fBhttp_proxy\fR
environment variables if they are set.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhttp_proxy_host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The host name or IP address (IPv4 or IPv6) of the proxy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhttp_proxy_port\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The numeric port number to connect to on \fIhttp_proxy_host\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconnect_host\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The name of the remote host to which the proxy web server is to connect you.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconnect_port\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The numeric port number of the proxy web server to connect you to on
\fIhttp_proxy_host\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The recommended way to use a proxy connection command is to configure the
\fBProxyCommand\fR in \fBssh_config\fR(4) (see Example 1 and Example 2).
Example 3 shows how the proxy command can be specified on the command line when
running \fBssh\fR(1).
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSetting the proxy from the environment
.sp
.LP
The following example uses \fBssh-http-proxy-connect\fR in \fBssh_config\fR(4)
when the proxy is set from the environment:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHost playtime.foo.com
    ProxyCommand /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect \e
        playtime.foo.com 22\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fROverriding proxy environment variables
.sp
.LP
The following example uses \fBssh-http-proxy-connect\fR in \fBssh_config\fR(4)
to override (or if not set) proxy environment variables:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBHost playtime.foo.com
    ProxyCommand /usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect -h webcache \e
        -p 8080 playtime.foo.com 22\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUsing the command line
.sp
.LP
The following example uses \fBssh-http-proxy-connect\fR from the \fBssh\fR(1)
command line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ \fBssh -o'ProxyCommand="/usr/lib/ssh/ssh-http-proxy-connect \e
    -h webcache -p 8080 playtime.foo.com 22"' playtime.foo.com\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHTTPPROXY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Takes the \fIhttp_proxy_host\fR operand to specify the default proxy host.
Overrides \fBhttp_proxy\fR if both are set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHTTPPROXYPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Takes the \fIhttp_proxy_port\fR operand to specify the default proxy port.
Ignored if \fBHTTPPROXY\fR is not set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhttp_proxy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
\fBURL\fR format for specifying proxy host and port.
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBssh\fR(1), \fBssh-socks5-proxy-connect\fR(1), \fBssh_config\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
