.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH STRIP 1 "Oct 5, 2007"
.SH NAME
strip \- strip symbol table, debugging and line number information from an
object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBstrip\fR [\fB-lVx\fR] \fIfile\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrip\fR command removes the symbol table \fBSHT_SYMTAB\fR and its
associated string table, debugging information, and line number information
from \fBELF\fR object files. That is, besides the symbol table and associated
string table, the following sections are removed:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\&.line
\&.debug*
\&.stab*
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Once this stripping process has been done, limited symbolic debugging access is
available for that file. Therefore, this command is normally run only on
production modules that have been debugged and tested.
.sp
.LP
If \fBstrip\fR is executed on a common archive file (see \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD)) in
addition to processing the members, \fBstrip\fR removes the archive symbol
table. The archive symbol table must be restored by executing the \fBar\fR(1)
command with the \fB-s\fR option before the archive can be linked by the
\fBld\fR(1) command. \fBstrip\fR produces appropriate warning messages when
this situation arises.
.sp
.LP
\fBstrip\fR is used to reduce the file storage overhead taken by the object
file.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The amount of information stripped from the  \fBELF\fR object file can be
controlled by using any of the following options. The following options are
supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Strip line number information only.Does not strip the symbol table or debugging
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints, on standard error, the version number of  \fBstrip\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Does not strip the symbol table. Debugging and line number information might be
stripped.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A path name referring to an executable file.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBstrip\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/tmp/strp*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Temporary files
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBar\fR(1), \fBas\fR(1), \fBld\fR(1), \fBmcs\fR(1), \fBelf\fR(3ELF),
\fBtmpnam\fR(3C), \fBa.out\fR(4), \fBar.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The symbol table section is not removed if it is contained within a segment or
if the file is a relocatable object.
.sp
.LP
The line number and debugging sections are not removed if they are contained
within a segment or if their associated relocation section is contained within
a segment.
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrip\fR command is used to remove a standard predefined set of sections
from an ELF object file. To remove a user specified section by name, see
\fBmcs\fR(1).
