'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SVCS 1 "Apr 17, 2011"
.SH NAME
svcs \- report service status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR [\fB-aHpv?\fR] [\fB-Z\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIcol\fR[,\fIcol\fR]]... [\fB-R\fR \fIFMRI-instance\fR]...
     [\fB-sS\fR \fIcol\fR]... [\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR {\fB-d\fR | \fB-D\fR} [\fB-Hpv?\fR] [\fB-Z\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR] [\fB-o\fR \fIcol\fR[,\fIcol\fR]]... [\fB-sS\fR \fIcol\fR]...
     [\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR] ...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR [\fB-l\fR | \fB-L\fR] [\fB-vZ\fR] [\fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR] [\fIFMRI\fR | \fIpattern\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsvcs\fR \fB-x\fR [\fB-v\fR] [\fB-Z\fR | \fB-z\fR \fIzone\fR] [\fIFMRI\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvcs\fR command displays information about service instances as recorded
in the service configuration repository.
.sp
.LP
The first form of this command prints one-line status listings for service
instances specified by the arguments. Each instance is listed only once. With
no arguments, all enabled service instances, even if temporarily disabled, are
listed with the columns indicated below.
.sp
.LP
The second form prints one-line status listings for the dependencies or
dependents of the service instances specified by the arguments.
.sp
.LP
The third form prints detailed information about specific services and
instances.
.sp
.LP
The fourth form explains the states of service instances. For each argument, a
block of human-readable text is displayed which explains what state the service
is in, and why it is in that state. With no arguments, problematic services are
described.
.sp
.LP
Error messages are printed to the standard error stream.
.sp
.LP
The output of this command can be used appropriately as input to the
\fBsvcadm\fR(1M) command.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-?\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Displays an extended usage message, including column specifiers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Show all services, even disabled ones. This option has no effect if services
are selected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Lists the services or service instances upon which the given service instances
depend.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Lists the service instances that depend on the given services or service
instances.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Omits the column headers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
(The letter ell.) Displays all available information about the selected
services and service instances, with one service attribute displayed for each
line. Information for different instances are separated by blank lines.
.sp
The following specific attributes require further explanation:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdependency\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Information about a dependency. The grouping and \fBrestart_on\fR properties
are displayed first and are separated by a forward slash (\fB/\fR). Next, each
entity and its state is listed. See \fBsmf\fR(5) for information about states.
In addition to the standard states, each service dependency can have the
following state descriptions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBabsent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
No such service is defined on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinvalid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The fault management resource identifier (FMRI) is invalid (see \fBsmf\fR(5)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmultiple\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The entity is a service with multiple instances.
.RE

File dependencies can only have one of the following state descriptions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBabsent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
No such file on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBonline\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The file exists.
.sp
If the file did not exist the last time that \fBsvc.startd\fR evaluated the
service's dependencies, it can consider the dependency to be unsatisfied.
\fBsvcadm refresh\fR forces dependency re-evaluation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunknown\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
\fBstat\fR(2) failed for a reason other than \fBENOENT\fR.
.RE

See \fBsmf\fR(5) for additional details about dependencies, grouping, and
\fBrestart_on\fR values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBenabled\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Whether the service is enabled or not, and whether it is enabled or disabled
temporarily (until the next system reboot). The former is specified as either
\fBtrue\fR or \fBfalse\fR, and the latter is designated by the presence of
\fB(temporary)\fR.
.sp
A service might be temporarily disabled because an administrator has run
\fBsvcadm disable -t\fR, used \fBsvcadm milestone\fR, or booted the system to a
specific milestone. See \fBsvcadm\fR(1M) for details.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-L\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Display the log file of the selected services and service instances, one
per-line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR \fIcol\fR[,\fIcol\fR]...\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Prints the specified columns. Each \fIcol\fR should be a column name. See
\fBCOLUMNS\fR below for available columns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Lists processes associated with each service instance. A service instance can
have no associated processes. The process ID, start time, and command name
(\fBPID\fR, \fBSTIME\fR, and \fBCMD\fR fields from \fBps\fR(1)) are displayed
for each process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR \fIFMRI-instance\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Selects service instances that have the given service instance as their
restarter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIcol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Sorts output by column. \fIcol\fR should be a column name. See \fBCOLUMNS\fR
below for available columns. Multiple \fB-s\fR options behave additively.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIcol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Sorts by \fIcol\fR in the opposite order as option \fB-s\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Without \fB-x\fR or \fB-l\fR, displays verbose columns: \fBSTATE\fR,
\fBNSTATE\fR, \fBSTIME\fR, \fBCTID\fR, and \fBFMRI\fR.
.sp
With \fB-x\fR, displays extra information for each explanation.
.sp
With \fB-l\fR, displays user-visible properties in property groups of type
\fBapplication\fR and their description.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Displays explanations for service states.
.sp
Without arguments, the \fB-x\fR option explains the states of services which:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
are enabled, but are not running.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
are preventing another enabled service from running.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-z \fIzone\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Display only the services in the \fIzone\fR.  This option is only applicable
in the global zone, see \fBzones\fR(5).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB-Z\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Display services from all zones, with an additional column indicating in which
zone the service is running.  This option is only applicable in the global
zone, see \fBzones\fR(5).
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIFMRI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A fault management resource identifier (FMRI) that specifies one or more
instances (see \fBsmf\fR(5)). FMRIs can be abbreviated by specifying the
instance name, or the trailing portion of the service name. For example, given
the FMRI:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following are valid abbreviations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sendmail
:sendmail
smtp
smtp:sendmail
network/smtp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

The following are invalid abbreviations:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mail
network
network/smt
.fi
.in -2
.sp

If the FMRI specifies a service, then the command applies to all instances of
that service, except when used with the \fB-D\fR option.
.sp
Abbreviated forms of FMRIs are unstable, and should not be used in scripts or
other permanent tools.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpattern\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A pattern that is matched against the \fIFMRI\fRs of service instances
according to the "globbing" rules described by \fBfnmatch\fR(5). If the pattern
does not begin with \fBsvc:\fR, then \fBsvc:/\fR is prepended. The following is
a typical example of a glob pattern:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
qexample% svcs \e*keyserv\e*
STATE          STIME     FMRI
disabled       Aug_02    svc:/network/rpc/keyserv:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIFMRI-instance\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
An FMRI that specifies an instance.
.RE

.SH COLUMNS
.sp
.LP
Column names are case insensitive. The default output format is equivalent to
"\fB-o\fR \fBstate,stime,fmri\fR". The default sorting columns are \fBSTATE\fR,
\fBSTIME\fR, \fBFMRI\fR.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCTID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The primary contract ID for the service instance. Not all instances have valid
primary contract IDs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDESC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A brief description of the service, from its template element. A service might
not have a description available, in which case a hyphen (\fB\(hy\fR) is used
to denote an empty value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFMRI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIFMRI\fR of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The instance name of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNSTA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The abbreviated next state of the service instance, as given in the \fBSTA\fR
column description. A hyphen denotes that the instance is not transitioning.
Same as \fBSTA\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The next state of the service. A hyphen is used to denote that the instance is
not transitioning. Same as \fBSTATE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCOPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The scope name of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The service name of the service instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The abbreviated state of the service instance (see \fBsmf\fR(5)):
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDGD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
degraded
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDIS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
disabled
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLRC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
legacy \fBrc*.d\fR script-initiated instance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMNT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
maintenance
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBOFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
offline
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBON\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
online
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
uninitialized
.RE

Absent or unrecognized states are denoted by a question mark (\fB?\fR)
character. An asterisk (\fB*\fR) is appended for instances in transition,
unless the \fBNSTA\fR or \fBNSTATE\fR column is also being displayed.
.sp
See \fBsmf\fR(5) for an explanation of service states.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The state of the service instance. An asterisk is appended for instances in
transition, unless the \fBNSTA\fR or \fBNSTATE\fR column is also being
displayed.
.sp
See \fBsmf\fR(5) for an explanation of service states.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
If the service instance entered the current state within the last 24 hours,
this column indicates the time that it did so. Otherwise, this column indicates
the date on which it did so, printed with underscores (\fB_\fR) in place of
blanks.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDisplaying the Default Output
.sp
.LP
This example displays default output:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs
STATE          STIME    FMRI
\&...
legacy_run     13:25:04 lrc:/etc/rc3_d/S42myscript
\&...
online         13:21:50 svc:/system/svc/restarter:default
\&...
online         13:25:03 svc:/milestone/multi-user:default
\&...
online         13:25:07 svc:/milestone/multi-user-server:default
\&...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRListing All Local Instances
.sp
.LP
This example lists all local instances of the \fBservice1\fR service.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -o state,nstate,fmri service1
STATE        NSTATE        FMRI
online       -             svc:/service1:instance1
disabled     -             svc:/service1:instance2
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRListing Verbose Information
.sp
.LP
This example lists verbose information.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -v network/rpc/rstat:udp
STATE          NSTATE        STIME    CTID   FMRI
online         -             Aug_09        - svc:/network/rpc/rstat:udp
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRListing Detailed Information
.sp
.LP
This example lists detailed information about all instances of
\fBsystem/service3\fR. Additional fields can be displayed, as appropriate to
the managing restarter.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -l network/rpc/rstat:udp

fmri         svc:/network/rpc/rstat:udp
enabled      true
state        online
next_state   none
restarter    svc:/network/inetd:default
contract_id
dependency   require_all/error svc:/network/rpc/bind (online)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 5 \fRListing Processes
.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -p sendmail
STATE          STIME    FMRI
online         13:25:13 svc:/network/smtp:sendmail
               13:25:15   100939 sendmail
13:25:15   100940 sendmail
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 6 \fRExplaining Service States Using \fBsvcs\fR \fB-x\fR
.sp
.LP
(a) In this example, \fBsvcs\fR \fB-x\fR has identified that the print/server
service being disabled is the root cause of two services which are enabled but
not online. \fBsvcs\fR \fB-xv\fR shows that those services are
\fBprint/rfc1179\fR and \fBprint/ipp-listener\fR. This situation can be
rectified by either enabling \fBprint/server\fR or disabling \fBrfc1179\fR and
\fBipp-listener\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% svcs -x
svc:/application/print/server:default (LP print server)
 State: disabled since Mon Feb 13 17:56:21 2006
Reason: Disabled by an administrator.
   See: http://illumos.org/msg/SMF-8000-05
   See: lpsched(1M)
Impact: 2 dependent services are not running. (Use -v for list.)
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
(b) In this example, NFS is not working:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ svcs nfs/client
STATE          STIME    FMRI
offline        16:03:23 svc:/network/nfs/client:default
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
(c) The following example shows that the problem is \fBnfs/status\fR.
\fBnfs/client\fR is waiting because it depends on \fBnfs/nlockmgr\fR, which
depends on \fBnfs/status\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example$ svcs -xv nfs/client
svc:/network/nfs/client:default (NFS client)
 State: offline since Mon Feb 27 16:03:23 2006
Reason: Service svc:/network/nfs/status:default
        is not running because a method failed repeatedly.
   See: http://illumos.org/msg/SMF-8000-GE
  Path: svc:/network/nfs/client:default
          svc:/network/nfs/nlockmgr:default
            svc:/network/nfs/status:default
   See: man -M /usr/share/man -s 1M mount_nfs
   See: /var/svc/log/network-nfs-client:default.log
Impact: This service is not running.
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Successful command invocation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Fatal error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Invalid command line options were specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
Screen output is Uncommitted. The invocation is Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBps\fR(1), \fBsvcprop\fR(1), \fBsvcadm\fR(1M), \fBsvccfg\fR(1M),
\fBsvc.startd\fR(1M), \fBstat\fR(2), \fBlibscf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBfnmatch\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5), \fBzones\fR(5)
