'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TBL 1 "Aug 2, 1994"
.SH NAME
tbl \- format tables for nroff or troff
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtbl\fR [\fB-me\fR] [\fB-mm\fR] [\fB-ms\fR] [\fIfilename\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBtbl\fR is a preprocessor for formatting tables for \fBnroff\fR(1) or
\fBtroff\fR(1). The input \fIfilename\fRs are copied to the standard output,
except that lines between \fB\&.TS\fR and \fB\&.TE\fR command lines are assumed
to describe tables and are reformatted.
.sp
.LP
If no arguments are given, \fBtbl\fR reads the standard input, so \fBtbl\fR may
be used as a filter.  When \fBtbl\fR is used with \fBeqn\fR(1) or \fBneqn\fR,
the \fBtbl\fR command should be first, to minimize the volume of data passed
through pipes.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-me\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Copy the \fB-me\fR macro package to the front of the output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-mm\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Copy the \fB-mm\fR macro package to the front of the output file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-ms\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Copy the \fB-ms\fR macro package to the front of the output file.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBtbl\fR
.sp
.LP
As an example, letting `\fB@\fR' (at-sign) represent a \fBTAB,\fR which should
be typed as an actual \fBTAB\fR character in the input file

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB\&.TS
c s s
c c s
c c c
l n n.
Household Population
Town@Households
@Number@Size
Bedminster@789@3.26
Bernards Twp.@3087@3.74
Bernardsville@2018@3.30
Bound Brook@3425@3.04
Branchburg@1644@3.49
\&.TE\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
yields

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l
l l l .
\fBHousehold Population\fR
\fBTown\fR	\fBHouseholds\fR
	\fBNumber\fR	\fBSize\fR
\fBBedminster\fR	\fB789\fR	\fB3.26\fR
\fBBernards Twp.\fR	\fB3087\fR	\fB3.74\fR
\fBBernardsville\fR	\fB2018\fR	\fB3.30\fR
\fBBound Brook\fR	\fB3425\fR	\fB3.04\fR
\fBBranchburg\fR	\fB1644\fR	\fB3.49\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/e\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fB-me\fR macros
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/m\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fB-mm\fR macros
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/s\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fB-ms\fR macros
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBeqn\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1), \fBtroff\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
