.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH TEE 1 "Nov 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
tee \- replicate the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tee\fR [\fB-ai\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBtee\fR [\fB-ail\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp
.LP
\fB/usr/bin/tee\fR copies standard input to standard output, making a copy in
zero or more files. \fBtee\fR does not buffer its output. The options determine
if the specified files are overwritten or appended to.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The \fBtee\fR built-in in \fBksh93\fR is associated with the \fB/bin\fR and
\fB/usr/bin\fR paths. It is invoked when tee is executed without a pathname
prefix and the pathname search finds a \fB/bin/tee\fR or \fB/usr/bin/tee\fR
executable.
.sp
.LP
\fBtee\fR copies standard input to standard output and to zero or more files.
The options determine whether the specified files are overwritten or appended
to. The tee utility does not buffer output. If a write to a file fails,
\fBtee\fR continues to write to other files although it exits with a non-zero
exit status.
.sp
.LP
The number of \fIfile\fR operands that can be specified is limited by the
underlying operating system.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fB/usr/bin/tee\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Appends the output to the files rather than overwriting them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Ignores interrupts.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the \fBtee\fR built-in command in
\fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--append\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Appends the output to the files rather than overwriting them.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--ignore-interrupts\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Ignores \fBSIGINT\fR signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--line-buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Sets the standard output to be line buffered.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A path name of an output file. Processing of at least 13 \fIfile\fR operands
are supported.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBtee\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBtee\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by \fB/usr/bin/tee\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The standard input was successfully copied to all output files.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The number of files that could not be opened or whose status could not be
obtained.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by \fBtee\fR in \fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/tee"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBksh93\fR built-in binding to \fB/bin\fR and \fB/usr/bin\fR is Volatile.
The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcat\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
