'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text
.\" are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical
.\" and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TTY 1 "Aug 11, 2009"
.SH NAME
tty \- return user's terminal name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/bin/tty\fR [\fB-l\fR] [\fB-s\fR]
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBtty\fR [ \fIoptions\fR ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/tty"
.sp
.LP
The \fBtty\fR utility writes to the standard output the name of the terminal
that is open as standard input. The name that is used is equivalent to the
string that would be returned by the \fBttyname\fR(3C) function.
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The \fBksh93\fR \fBtty\fR built-in writes the name of the terminal that is
connected to standard input onto standard output. If the standard input is not
a terminal, "not a tty" will be written to standard output.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.SS "/usr/bin/tty"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Prints the synchronous line number to which the user's terminal is connected,
if it is on an active synchronous line.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Inhibits printing of the terminal path name, allowing one to test just the exit
status.
.RE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--line-number\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Write the synchronous line number of the terminal on a separate line following
the terminal name line.  If the standard input is not a synchronous terminal
then "not on an active synchronous line" is written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--silent\fR|\fBquiet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Disable the terminal name line. Portable applications should use [[ -t 0 ]]
instead.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of  \fBtty\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR,  \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR,  and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Standard input is a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Standard input is not a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	\fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBisatty\fR(3C), \fBttyname\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnot on an active synchronous line\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The standard input is not a synchronous terminal and \fB-l\fR is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnot a tty\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The standard input is not a terminal and \fB-s\fR is not specified.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fB-s\fR option is useful only if the exit status is wanted. It does not
rely on the ability to form a valid path name. Portable applications should use
\fBtest\fR \fB-t\fR.
