'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.TH TYPESET 1 "Aug 11, 2009"
.SH NAME
typeset, whence \- shell built-in functions to set/get attributes and values
for shell variables and functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBtypeset\fR [\(+- HLRZfilrtux [\fIn\fR]] [\fIname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwhence\fR [\fB-pv\fR] \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fB++typeset\fR [\(+-AHflbnprtux] [\(+-EFLRZi[\fIn\fR]] [\fIvname\fR[=\fIvalue\fR]]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBwhence\fR [\fB-afpv\fR] \fIname\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "ksh"
.sp
.LP
\fBtypeset\fR sets attributes and values for shell variables and functions.
When \fBtypeset\fR is invoked inside a function, a new instance of the
variables \fIname\fR is created. The variables \fIvalue\fR and \fBtype\fR are
restored when the function completes. The following list of attributes can be
specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The names refer to function names rather than variable names. No assignments
can be made and the only other valid flags are \fB-t\fR, \fB-u\fR and \fB-x\fR.
The flag \fB-t\fR turns on execution tracing for this function. The flag
\fB-u\fR causes this function to be marked undefined. The \fBF\fR\fBPATH\fR
variable is searched to find the function definition when the function is
referenced. The flag \fB-x\fR allows the function definition to remain in
effect across shell procedures invoked by name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
This flag provides UNIX to hostname file mapping on non-UNIX machines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Parameter is an integer. This makes arithmetic faster. If \fIn\fR is
\fBnon-zero\fR it defines the output arithmetic base; otherwise, the first
assignment determines the output base.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All uppercase characters are converted to lowercase. The uppercase flag,
\fB-u\fR is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Left justify and remove leading blanks from \fIvalue\fR. If \fIn\fR is
\fBnon-zero\fR it defines the width of the field; otherwise, it is determined
by the width of the value of first assignment. When the variable is assigned
to, it is filled on the right with blanks or truncated, if necessary, to fit
into the field. Leading zeros are removed if the \fB-Z\fR flag is also set. The
\fB-R\fR flag is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The specified \fIname\fRs are marked \fBreadonly\fR and these names cannot be
changed by subsequent assignment.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Right justify and fill with leading blanks. If \fIn\fR is \fBnon-zero\fR it
defines the width of the field, otherwise it is determined by the width of the
value of first assignment. The field is left filled with blanks or truncated
from the end if the variable is reassigned. The \fB-L\fR flag is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Tags the variables. Tags are user definable and have no special meaning to the
shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
All lowercase characters are converted to uppercase characters. The lowercase
flag, \fB-l\fR is turned off.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
The specified \fIname\fRs are marked for automatic export to the
\fBenvironment\fR of subsequently-executed commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Right justify and fill with leading zeros if the first non-blank character is a
digit and the \fB-L\fR flag has not been set. If \fIn\fR is \fBnon-zero\fR it
defines the width of the field. Otherwise, it is determined by the width of the
value of first assignment.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fB-i\fR attribute can not be specified along with \fB-R\fR, \fB-L\fR,
\fB-Z\fR, or \fB-f\fR.
.sp
.LP
Using \fB+\fR rather than \fB\(mi\fR causes these flags to be turned off. If no
\fIname\fR arguments are specified but flags are specified, a list of
\fInames\fR (and optionally the \fIvalues\fR) of the \fIvariables\fR which have
these flags set is printed. (Using \fB+\fR rather than \fB\(mi\fR keeps the
values from being printed.) If no \fIname\fRs and flags are specified, the
\fInames\fR and \fIattributes\fR of all \fIvariables\fR are printed.
.sp
.LP
For each \fIname\fR, \fBwhence\fR indicates how it would be interpreted if used
as a command name.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-v\fR flag produces a more verbose report.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-p\fR flag does a path search for \fIname\fR even if name is an alias, a
function, or a reserved word.
.sp
.LP
On this manual page, \fBksh\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two *
(asterisks) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
Words, following a command preceded by \fB**\fR that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment.
This means that tilde substitution is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word
splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-f\fR option is not specified, \fBtypeset\fR sets, unsets, or
displays attributes of variables as specified with the options. If the first
option is specified with a \fB-\fR then the attributes are set for each of the
specified names. If the first option is specified with a \fB+\fR, then the
specified attributes are unset. If \fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR is specified, \fIvalue\fR
is assigned before the attributes are set.
.sp
.LP
When \fBtypeset\fR is called inside a function that is defined with the
\fBfunction\fR reserved word, and \fIname\fR does not contain a \fB\&.\fR, a
local variable statically scoped to that function is created.
.sp
.LP
Not all option combinations are possible. For example, the numeric options
\fB-i\fR, \fB-E\fR, and \fB-F\fR cannot be specified with the justification
options \fB-L\fR, \fB-R\fR, and \fB-Z\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following preset aliases are set by the shell:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfloat\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fBtypeset\fR \fB-E\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfunctions\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fBtypeset\fR \fB-f\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinteger\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fBtypeset\fR \fB-i\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnameref\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fBtypeset\fR \fB-n\fR
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no \fInames\fR are specified, variables that have the specified options are
displayed. If the first option is specified with a leading \fB-\fR then the
name and value of each variable is written to standard output. Otherwise, only
the names are written. If no options or only the \fB-p\fR option are specified,
the names and attributes of all variables that have attributes are written to
standard output. When \fB-f\fR is specified, the names displayed are function
names.
.sp
.LP
If \fB-f\fR is specified, then each name refers to a function and the only
valid options are \fB-u\fR and \fB-t\fR. In this case no \fB=\fR\fIvalue\fR can
be specified.
.sp
.LP
\fBtypeset\fR is built-in to the shell as a declaration command so that field
splitting and pathname expansion are not performed on the arguments. Tilde
expansion occurs on \fIvalue\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the \fBtypeset\fR built-in command in
\fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Indexed array. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-A\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Associative array. Each \fIname\fR is converted to an associative array. If a
variable already exists, the current value becomes index \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Each name can contain binary data. Its value is the mime \fBbase64\fR encoding
of the data. This option can be used with \fB-Z\fR, to specify fixed sized
fields.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-E\fR [\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Floating point number represented in scientific notation. \fIn\fR specifies the
number of significant figures when the value is expanded. The default value is
\fB10\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Each of the options and names refers to a function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-F\fR [\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Floating point. \fIn\fR is the number of places after the decimal point when
the value is expanded. The default value is \fB10\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-H\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Hostname mapping. Each name holds a native pathname. Assigning a UNIX format
pathname causes it to be converted to a pathname suitable for the current host.
This has no effect when the native system is UNIX.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR [\fIbase\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An integer. \fIbase\fR represents the arithmetic base from \fB2\fR to \fB64\fR.
The option value can be omitted. The default value is \fB10\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Convert uppercase characters to lowercase characters. Unsets the \fB-u\fR
option. When used with \fB-i\fR, \fB-E\fR, or \fB-F\fR indicates long variant.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR [\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Left justify. If \fIn\fR is specified, it represents the field width. If the
\fB-Z\fR attribute is also specified, then leading zeros are stripped. The
option value can be omitted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Name reference. The value is the name of a variable that \fIname\fR references.
\fIname\fR cannot contain a \fB\&.\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Causes the output to be in a format that can be used as input to the shell to
recreate the attributes for variables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Enables read-only. Once this option is enabled, it cannot be disabled. See
\fBreadonly\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-R\fR [\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Right justify. If \fIn\fR is specified it represents the field width. If the
\fB-Z\fR option is also specified, zeros are used as the fill character.
Otherwise, SPACEs are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Restricts integer size to short when used with \fB-i\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
When used inside a function defined with the function reserved word, the
specified variables will have function static scope.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
When used with \fB-f\fR, enables tracing for each of the specified functions.
Otherwise, \fB-t\fR is a user defined attribute and has no meaning to the
shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-T\fR \fItname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
\fItname\fR is the name of a type name given to each name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-u\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Without \fB-f\fR or \fB-i\fR, converts lowercase characters to uppercase and
unsets \fB-l\fR. When used with \fB-f\fR, specifies that \fIname\fR is a
function that has not yet been loaded. When used with \fB-i\fR specifies that
the value is displayed as an unsigned integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Puts each name on the export list. See \fBexport\fR(1). \fIname\fR cannot
contain a \fB\&.\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR [\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Floating point number represented in hexadecimal notation. \fIn\fR specifies
the number of significant figures when the value is expanded. The option value
may be omitted. The default value is 10.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-Z\fR [\fIn\fR]\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Zero fill. If \fIn\fR is specified it represents the field width. The option
value can be omitted.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by \fBtypeset\fR in \fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the \fB-v\fR is not specified, \fBwhence\fR writes on standard output an
absolute pathname, if any, corresponding to \fIname\fR based on the complete
search order that the shell uses. If \fIname\fR is not found, no output is
produced.
.sp
.LP
If the \fB-v\fR is specified, the output from \fBwhence\fR also contains
information that indicates how the specified name would be interpreted by the
shell in the current execution environment.
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by the \fBwhence\fR built-in command in
\fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Display all uses for each name rather than the first.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Do not check for functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Do not check to see if name is a reserved word, a built-in, an alias, or a
function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
For each name specified, the shell displays a line that indicates if that name
is one of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Reserved word
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Alias
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Built-in
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Undefined function
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Function
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Tracked alias
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Program
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Not found
.RE
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned by \fBwhence\fR in \fBksh93\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion. Each name was found by the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
One or more names were not found by the shell.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.LP
On this manual page, \fBksh93\fR(1) commands that are preceded by one or two
\fB+\fR (plus signs) are treated specially in the following ways:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Variable assignment lists preceding the command remain in effect when the
command completes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
I/O redirections are processed after variable assignments.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Errors cause a script that contains them to abort.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
They are not valid function names.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
Words, following a command preceded by \fB++\fR that are in the format of a
variable assignment, are expanded with the same rules as a variable assignment.
This means that tilde substitution is performed after the \fB=\fR sign and word
splitting and file name generation are not performed.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBksh\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBreadonly\fR(1), \fBset\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
