'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UNAME 1 "May 13, 2017"
.SH NAME
uname \- print name of current system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuname\fR [\fB-aimnprsvX\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuname\fR [\fB-S\fR \fIsystem_name\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBuname\fR utility prints information about the current system on the
standard output. When options are specified, symbols representing one or more
system characteristics will be written to the standard output. If no options
are specified, \fBuname\fR prints the current operating system's name. The
options print selected information returned by \fBuname\fR(2),
\fBsysinfo\fR(2), or both.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints basic information currently available from the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-i\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the name of the platform.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the machine hardware name (class). Use of this option is discouraged.
Use \fBuname\fR \fB-p\fR instead. See NOTES section below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the nodename (the nodename is the name by which the system is known to a
communications network).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the current host's \fBISA\fR or processor type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the operating system release level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the name of the operating system. This is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-S\fR \fIsystem_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The nodename may be changed by specifying a system name argument. The system
name argument is restricted to \fBSYS_NMLN\fR characters. \fBSYS_NMLN\fR is an
implementation specific value defined in \fB<sys/utsname.h>\fR\&. Only the
super-user is allowed this capability. This change does not persist across
reboots of the system. See \fBnodename\fR(4) for details of how to change a
host's name permanently.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the operating system version.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-X\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints expanded system information, one information element per line, as
expected by SCO UNIX. The displayed information includes:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
system name, node, release, version, machine, and number of CPUs.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
BusType, Serial, and Users (set to "unknown" in Solaris)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
OEM# and Origin# (set to \fB0\fR and \fB1\fR, respectively)
.RE
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRPrinting the OS name and release level
.sp
.LP
The following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
example% \fBuname \(misr\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
prints the operating system name and release level, separated by one SPACE
character.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBuname\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBarch\fR(1), \fBisalist\fR(1), \fBsysinfo\fR(2),
\fBuname\fR(2), \fBnodename\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Independent software vendors (\fBISV\fRs) and others who need to determine
detailed characteristics of the platform on which their software is either
being installed or executed should use the \fBuname\fR command.
.sp
.LP
To determine the operating system name and release level, use \fBuname
\fR\fB-sr\fR. To determine only the operating system release level, use
\fBuname \fR\fB-r\fR. Notice that operating system release levels are not
guaranteed to be in \fIx.y\fR format (such as 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, and so forth);
but could be in the \fIx.y.z\fR format (such as 5.5.1).
.sp
.LP
In SunOS 4.\fIx\fR releases, the \fBarch\fR(1) command was often used to obtain
information similar to that obtained by using the \fBuname\fR command. The
\fBarch\fR(1) command output "sun4" was often incorrectly interpreted to
signify a SunOS SPARC system. If hardware platform information is desired, use
\fBuname \fR\fB-sp\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBarch\fR \fB-k\fR and \fBuname\fR \fB-m\fR commands return equivalent
values; however, the use of either of these commands by third party programs is
discouraged, as is the use of the \fBarch\fR command in general. To determine
the machine's Instruction Set Architecture (\fBISA\fR or processor type), use
\fBuname\fR with the \fB-p\fR option.
