.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Sep 13, 2015
.Dt UUIDGEN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uuidgen
.Nd command-line utility to generate UUID's
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm uuidgen [-r | -t] [-o filename]
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command generates and prints a Universally Unique
IDentifier (UUID). By default
.Nm
creates a new UUID based on high-quality randomness from
arc4random(3C) (DCE version 4). If the \fB-t\fR option is
provided then a time-based (DCE version 1) UUID will be
generated.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl r
Generate a UUID using
.Nm uuid_generate_random()
instead of
.Nm uuid_generate() .
This derives the new UUID from random data.
.It Fl t
Generate a UUID using
.Nm uuid_generate_time()
instead of
.Nm uuid_generate() .
This uses the current time and either the
Ethernet address (if available) or system node ID.
.It Fl o
Redirect output to
.Ar filename
instead of stdout.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv 0
Successful completion.
.It Dv >0
Failure.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr uuid_generate 3uuid ,
.Xr uuid_generate_random 3uuid ,
.Xr uuid_generate_time 3uuid
