.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited All Rights Reserved
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1982-2007 AT&T Knowledge Ventures
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH WC 1 "Mar 13, 2008"
.SH NAME
wc \- display a count of lines, words and characters in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SS "/usr/bin/wc"
.LP
.nf
\fBwc\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-m\fR | \fB-C\fR] [\fB-lw\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SS "ksh93"
.LP
.nf
\fBwc\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-m\fR | \fB-C\fR] [\fB-lLqw\fR] [\fIfile\fR]...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "/usr/bin/wc"
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR reads one or more input files and, by default, writes the number of
NEWLINE characters, words and bytes contained in each input file to the
standard output.
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR also writes a total count for all named files, if more than one input
file is specified.
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR considers a \fIword\fR to be a non-zero-length string of characters
delimited by white space (for example, \fBSPACE\fR, \fBTAB\fR). See
\fBiswspace\fR(3C) or \fBisspace\fR(3C).
.SS "ksh93"
.sp
.LP
The \fBwc\fR built-in in \fBksh93\fR is associated with the \fB/bin\fR and
\fB/usr/bin\fR paths. It is invoked when \fBwc\fR is executed without a
pathname prefix and the pathname search finds a \fB/bin/wc\fR or
\fB/usr/bin/wc\fR executable.
.sp
.LP
\fBwc\fR reads one or more input files and, by default, for each file writes a
line containing the number of NEWLINEs, words, and bytes contained in each file
followed by the file name to standard output in that order. A word is defined
to be a \fBnon-zero\fR length string delimited by \fBisspace\fR(3C) characters.
.sp
.LP
If more than one file is specified, \fBwc\fR writes a total count for all of
the named files with total written instead of the file name.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBwc\fR writes all three counts. Options can specified so that
only certain counts are written. The \fB-c\fR, \fB-C\fR, and \fB-m\fR options
are mutually exclusive.
.sp
.LP
If no file is specified, or if the file is \fB-\fR, \fBwc\fR reads from
standard input and no filename is written to standard output. The start of the
file is defined as the current offset.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--bytes | chars\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the byte counts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--lines\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the line counts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-L\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--longest-line | max-line-length\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the longest line length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m | C\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--multibyte-chars\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the character counts.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-q\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--quiet\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Suppress invalid multi-byte character warnings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fB--words\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List the word counts.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Counts bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Same as \fB-m\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Counts lines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Counts characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-w\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Counts words delimited by white space characters or new line characters.
Delimiting characters are Extended Unix Code (\fBEUC\fR) characters from any
code set defined by \fBiswspace()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If no option is specified, the default is \fB-lwc\fR (counts lines, words, and
bytes.)
.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operand is supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A path name of an input file. If no \fIfile\fR operands are specified, the
standard input is used.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
See \fBlargefile\fR(5) for the description of the behavior of \fBwc\fR when
encountering files greater than or equal to 2 Gbyte ( 2^31 bytes).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBwc\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.SS "/usr/bin/wc"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SS "ksh93"
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBksh93\fR built-in binding to \fB/bin\fR and \fB/usr/bin\fR is Volatile.
The built-in interfaces are Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcksum\fR(1), \fBksh93\fR(1), \fBisspace\fR(3C), \fBiswalpha\fR(3C),
\fBiswspace\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBlargefile\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
