'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WHATIS 1 "Sep 14, 1992"
.SH NAME
whatis \- display a one-line summary about a keyword
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBwhatis\fR \fIcommand\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBwhatis\fR looks up a given \fIcommand\fR and displays the header line from
the manual section. You can then run the \fBman\fR(1) command to get more
information. If the line starts \fBname(\fIsection\fR)\fR.\|.\|. you can do
\fBman\fR \fB-s\fR\fB\fIsection\fR name\fR to get the documentation for it.
Try \fBwhatis ed\fR and then you should do \fBman\fR \fB-s\fR \fB1 ed\fR to get
the manual page for \fBed\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
\fBwhatis\fR is actually just the \fB-f\fR option to the \fBman\fR(1) command.
.sp
.LP
\fBwhatis\fR uses the \fB/usr/share/man/windex\fR database.  This database is
created by \fBcatman\fR(1M). If this database does not exist, \fBwhatis\fR will
fail.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/man/windex\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Table of contents and keyword database
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBapropos\fR(1), \fBman\fR(1), \fBcatman\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
