.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"      This product includes software developed by the FreeBSD Project
.\"      its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the FreeBSD Project nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE CONTRIBUTOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
.\" DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
.\" THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
.\" OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Manpage Copyright (c) 1995, Jordan Hubbard <jkh@FreeBSD.org>
.\" Copyright 2023 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\"
.Dd March 15, 2023
.Dt WHICH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm which
.Nd "locate a program file in the user's path"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl as
.Ar command ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility
takes a list of command names and searches the path for each executable
file that would be run had these commands actually been invoked.
.Pp
Some shells may provide a built-in
.Nm
command which is similar or identical to this utility.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Fl a
List all instances of executables found
.Pq instead of just the first one of each .
.It Fl s
No output, just return 0 if all of the executables are found, or 1 if
some were not found.
.El
.Sh OPERANDS
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ar command
The name of a command to be located.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
See
.Xr environ 7
for descriptions of the following environment variables that affect the
execution of
.Nm :
.Ev PATH .
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy 0
All of the provided operands were found in the path and would be executed if
the commands were invoked.
.It Sy 1
One or more of the provided operands was not found in the path or would not
be executed if the commands were invoked, or an error occurred.
.It Sy 2
Invalid command line options were specified.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Locate the
.Sq ls
and
.Sq cp
commands.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ /usr/bin/which ls cp
/usr/bin/ls
/usr/bin/cp
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 2
Use a specific
.Ev PATH
and show all occurrences.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ PATH=/usr/bin:/usr/has/bin /usr/bin/which -a edit
/usr/bin/edit
/usr/has/bin/edit
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 3
Executable reported multiple times.
.Pp
If
.Ev PATH
contains repeated components, the same executable can be reported
more than once:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ PATH=/usr/bin:/usr/bin /usr/bin/which -a ls
/usr/bin/ls
/usr/bin/ls
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 4
Do not show output.
.Pp
Just exit with an appropriate return code:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ /usr/bin/which -s ls cp
$ echo $?
0
$ /usr/bin/which -s fakecommand
$ echo $?
1
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line interface of
.Nm
is
.Sy Committed .
The output of
.Nm
is
.Sy Committed .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr find 1 ,
.Xr environ 7
