'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH XGETTEXT 1 "Mar 23, 1999"
.SH NAME
xgettext \- extract gettext call strings from C programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBxgettext\fR [\fB-ns\fR] [\fB-a\fR [\fB-x\fR \fIexclude-file\fR]] [\fB-c\fR \fIcomment-tag\fR]
     [\fB-d\fR \fIdefault-domain\fR] [\fB-j\fR] [\fB-m\fR \fIprefix\fR] [\fB-M\fR \fIsuffix\fR]
     [\fB-p\fR \fIpathname\fR] \fB-|\fR \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBxgettext\fR \fB-h\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBxgettext\fR utility is used to automate the creation of portable message
files (\fB\&.po\fR). A \fB\&.po\fR file contains copies of "C" strings that are
found in  ANSI C source code in \fIfilename\fR or the standard input if
`\fB\(mi\fR\&' is specified on the command line. The  \fB\&.po\fR file can be
used as input to the  \fBmsgfmt\fR(1) utility, which produces a binary form of
the message file that can be  used by application during run-time.
.sp
.LP
\fBxgettext\fR writes \fImsgid\fR strings from \fBgettext\fR(3C) calls in
\fIfilename\fR to the default output file \fBmessages.po\fR. The default output
file name can be changed by  \fB-d\fR option. \fImsgid\fR strings in
\fBdgettext()\fR calls are written to the output file
\fBdomainname\fR\fB\&.po\fR where \fBdomainname\fR is the first parameter to
the \fBdgettext()\fR call.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBxgettext\fR creates a  \fB\&.po\fR file in the current working
directory, and each entry is in the same order that the strings are extracted
from \fIfilenames\fR. When the \fB-p\fR option is specified, the  \fB\&.po\fR
file is created in the  \fIpathname\fR directory. An existing \fB\&.po\fR file
is overwritten.
.sp
.LP
Duplicate  \fImsgid\fRs are written to the  \fB\&.po\fR file as comment lines.
When the  \fB-s\fR option is specified, the  \fB\&.po\fR is sorted by the
\fImsgid\fR string, and all duplicated \fImsgid\fRs are removed. All
\fImsgstr\fR directives in the \fB\&.po\fR file are empty unless the \fB-m\fR
option is used.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Add comment lines to the output file indicating file name and line number in
the source file where each extracted string is encountered. These lines appear
before each \fImsgid\fR in the following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# # File: \fIfilename\fR, line: \fIline-number\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Generate output sorted by  \fImsgid\fRs with all duplicate  \fImsgid\fRs
removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-a\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Extract all strings, not just those found in \fBgettext\fR(3C), and
\fBdgettext()\fR () calls. Only one  \fB\&.po\fR file is created.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR \fIcomment-tag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The comment block beginning with \fIcomment-tag\fR as the first token of the
comment block is added to the output \fB\&.po\fR file as  \fI#\fR delimited
comments. For multiple domains, \fBxgettext\fR directs comments and messages to
the prevailing text domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR \fIdefault-domain\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Rename default output file from \fBmessages.po\fR to \fIdefault-domain\fR
\fB\&.po\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-j\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Join messages with existing message files.  If a \fB\&.po\fR file does not
exist, it is created.  If a \fB\&.po\fR file does exist, new messages are
appended.  Any duplicate \fBmsgid\fRs are commented out in the resulting
\fB\&.po\fR file.  Domain directives in the existing \fB\&.po\fR file are
ignored. Results not guaranteed if the existing message file has been edited.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR \fIprefix\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Fill in the \fImsgstr\fR with  \fIprefix\fR. This is useful for debugging
purposes. To make \fImsgstr\fR identical to \fImsgid\fR, use an empty string
(\fB""\fR) for \fIprefix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-M\fR \fIsuffix\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Fill in the \fImsgstr\fR with  \fIsuffix\fR. This is useful for debugging
purposes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR \fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Specify the directory where the output files will be placed. This option
overrides the current working directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR \fIexclude-file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Specify a  \fB\&.po\fR file that contains a list of \fImsgid\fRs that are not
to be extracted from the input files. The format of \fIexclude-file\fR is
identical to the \fB\&.po\fR file. However, only the \fImsgid\fR directive line
in \fIexclude-file\fR is used. All other lines are simply ignored.  The
\fB-x\fR option can only be used with the \fB-a\fR option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-h\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Print a help message on the standard output.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmsgfmt\fR(1), \fBgettext\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
\fBxgettext\fR is not able to extract cast strings, for example ANSI C casts of
literal strings to \fB(const char *)\fR. This is unnecessary anyway, since the
prototypes in \fB<libintl.h>\fR already specify this type.
.sp
.LP
In messages and translation notes, lines greater than 2048 characters are
truncated to 2048 characters and a warning message is printed to stderr.
