'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH YPCAT 1 "Jan 23, 1995"
.SH NAME
ypcat \- print values in a NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBypcat\fR [\fB-kx\fR] [\fB-d\fR \fIypdomain\fR] \fImname\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBypcat\fR command prints out values in the NIS name service map specified
by \fImname\fR, which may be either a map name or a map nickname. Since
\fBypcat\fR uses the NIS network services, no NIS server is specified.
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBypfiles\fR(4) for an overview of the NIS name service.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-k\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Display the keys for those maps in which the values are null or the key is not
part of the value. None of the maps derived from files that have an ASCII
version in \fB/etc\fR fall into this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI ypdomain\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Specify a domain other than the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Display map nicknames.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBypmatch\fR(1), \fBypfiles\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
