'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH YPPASSWD 1 "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
yppasswd \- change your network password in the NIS database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fByppasswd\fR [\fIusername\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fByppasswd\fR utility changes the network password  associated with the
user \fIusername\fR in the Network Information Service (\fBNIS\fR) database. If
the user has done a \fBkeylogin\fR(1), and a publickey/secretkey pair exists
for the user in the \fBNIS\fR \fBpublickey.byname\fR map, \fByppasswd\fR also
re-encrypts the secretkey with the new password. The \fBNIS\fR password may be
different from the local one on your own machine.
.sp
.LP
\fByppasswd\fR prompts for the old  \fBNIS\fR password, and then for the new
one. You must type in the old password correctly for the change to take effect.
The new password must be typed twice, to forestall mistakes.
.sp
.LP
New passwords must be at least four characters long, if they use a sufficiently
rich alphabet, and at least six characters long if monocase. These rules are
relaxed if you are insistent enough. Only the owner of the name or the
super-user may change a password; superuser on the root master will not be
prompted for the old password, and does not need to follow password
construction requirements.
.sp
.LP
The \fBNIS\fR password daemon, \fBrpc.yppasswdd\fR must be running on your
\fBNIS\fR server in order for the new password to take effect.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBkeylogin\fR(1), \fBlogin\fR(1),
\fBpasswd\fR(1), \fBgetpwnam\fR(3C), \fBgetspnam\fR(3C),
\fBsecure_rpc\fR(3NSL), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
Even after the user has successfully changed his or her password using this
command, the subsequent \fBlogin\fR(1) using the new password will be
successful only if the user's password and shadow information is obtained from
NIS. See \fBgetpwnam\fR(3C), \fBgetspnam\fR(3C), and \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4).
.SH NOTES
.LP
The use of \fByppasswd\fR is discouraged, as it is now only a wrapper around
the \fBpasswd\fR(1) command, which should be used instead. Using
\fBpasswd\fR(1) with the \fB-r\fR \fBnis\fR option will
achieve the same results, and will be consistent across all the different name
services available.
.SH BUGS
.LP
The update protocol passes all the information to the server in one \fBRPC\fR
call, without ever looking at it. Thus, if you type your old password
incorrectly, you will not be notified until after you have entered your new
password.
