'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1988 Sun Microsystems, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.  Copyright (c) 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH YPWHICH 1 "Apr 7, 1995"
.SH NAME
ypwhich \- return name of NIS server or map master
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBypwhich\fR [\fB-d\fR \fIdomain\fR] [ [\fB-t\fR] \fB-m\fR [\fImname\fR] | [\fB-Vn\fR] \fIhostname\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBypwhich\fR \fB-x\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBypwhich\fR returns the name of the NIS server that supplies the  NIS name
services to a NIS client, or which is the master for a map. If invoked without
arguments, it gives the NIS server for the local machine.  If \fBhostname\fR is
specified, that machine is queried to find out which NIS master it is using.
.sp
.LP
Refer to \fBypfiles\fR(4) for an overview of the  NIS name services.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fI domain\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Use \fIdomain\fR instead of the default domain.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
This option inhibits map nickname translation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fI mname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Find the master NIS server for a map.  No \fBhostname\fR can be specified with
\fB-m\fR. \fImname\fR can be a mapname, or a nickname for a map. When
\fImname\fR is omitted, produce a list of available maps.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Display the map nickname translation table.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(miVn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Version of  \fBypbind\fR, V3 is default.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBypfiles\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
