#
# Copyright 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
# Use is subject to license terms.
#
# CDDL HEADER START
#
# The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
# Common Development and Distribution License, Version 1.0 only
# (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance
# with the License.
#
# You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
# or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions
# and limitations under the License.
#
# When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
# file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
# If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
# fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
# information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
#
# CDDL HEADER END
#
#ident	"%Z%%M%	%I%	%E% SMI"
#
# Sun::Solaris::Ucred documentation.
# 

=head1 NAME

Sun::Solaris::Ucred - Perl interface to User Credentials

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Sun::Solaris::Ucred qw(:ALL);

This module provides wrappers for the Ucred-related system and
library calls.

=head2 Functions

B<C<ucred_get($pid)>>

This function returns the credential of the process specified by $pid,
if the process exists and the calling process is permitted to obtain
the credentials of that process.

B<C<getpeerucred($fd)>>

If $fd is a connected connection oriented TLI endpoint, a connected
SOCK_STREAM or SOCK_SEQPKT socket, getpeerucred will return the user
credential of the peer at the time the connection was established,
if availble.

B<C<ucred_geteuid($ucred)>>

This function returns the effective uid of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getruid($ucred)>>

This function returns the real uid of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getsuid($ucred)>>

This function returns the saved uid of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getegid($ucred)>>

This function returns the effective group of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getrgid($ucred)>>

This function returns the real group of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getsgid($ucred)>>

This function returns the saved group of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getgroups($ucred)>>

This function returns the list of supplemental groups of a user
credential, if available.  An array of groups is returned in ARRAY
context; the number of groups is returned in SCALAR context.

B<C<ucred_getprivset($ucred, $which)>>

This function returns the privilege set specified by $which of a user
credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getpflags($ucred, $flags)>>

This function returns the value of a specific process flag of a user
credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getpid($ucred)>>

This function returns the process id of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getzoneid($ucred)>>

This function returns the zone id of a user credential, if available.

B<C<ucred_getprojid($ucred)>>

This function returns the project id of a user credential, if available.

=head2 Class methods

None.

=head2 Object methods

None.

=head2 Exports

By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be
used to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:

 :SYSCALLS    ucred_get(), getpeerucred()

 :LIBCALLS    ucred_geteuid(), ucred_getruid(), ucred_getsuid(),
	      ucred_getegid(), ucred_getrgid(), ucred_getsgid(),
	      ucred_getgroups(), ucred_getprivset(), ucred_getpflags(),
	      ucred_getpid(), ucred_getzoneid(), ucred_getprojid()

 :CONSTANTS

 :VARIABLES   %PRIVILEGES, %PRIVSETS

 :ALL         :SYSCALLS, :LIBCALLS, and :CONSTANTS

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

See C<attributes(5)> for descriptions of the following attributes:

  ___________________________________________________________
 |       ATTRIBUTE TYPE        |       ATTRIBUTE VALUE       |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Availability                | CPAN (http://www.cpan.org)  |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Interface Stability         | Evolving                    |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<getpeerucred(2)>, C<ucred_get(3C)>, C<attributes(5)>
