'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIBCOMMPUTIL 3LIB "Oct 12, 2007"
.SH NAME
libcommputil \- communication protocol parser utilities library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lcommputil\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBsdp.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The communication protocol parser utilities library is a placeholder for public
interfaces that facilitate parsing of various communication protocols.
Functions in this library parse the SDP (Session Description Protocol)
description, check for syntax conformance, and generate SDP descriptions.
.sp
.LP
SDP (Session Description Protocol), described in RFC 4566, describes multimedia
sessions for the purposes of session announcement, session invitation, and
other forms of multimedia session initiation.  SDP is used to convey session
information in Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), Streaming Media (Real Time
Streaming Protocol, RTSP), email, and World Wide Web and Multicast Session
Announcement.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibcommputil.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces
defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBsdp_add_attribute\fR	\fBsdp_add_bandwidth\fR
\fBsdp_add_connection\fR	\fBsdp_add_email\fR
\fBsdp_add_information\fR	\fBsdp_add_key\fR
\fBsdp_add_media\fR	\fBsdp_add_name\fR
\fBsdp_add_origin\fR	\fBsdp_add_phone\fR
\fBsdp_add_repeat\fR	\fBsdp_add_time\fR
\fBsdp_add_uri\fR	\fBsdp_add_zone\fR
\fBsdp_clone_session\fR	\fBsdp_delete_attribute\fR
\fBsdp_delete_field\fR	\fBsdp_delete_media\fR
\fBsdp_delete_media_field\fR	\fBsdp_find_attribute\fR
\fBsdp_find_media\fR	\fBsdp_find_media_rtpmap\fR
\fBsdp_free_session\fR	\fBsdp_new_session\fR
\fBsdp_parse\fR	\fBsdp_session_to_str\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libcommputil.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
shared object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libcommputil.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
64-bit shared object.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBattributes\fR(5)
