'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIBDAT 3LIB "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
libdat \- direct access transport library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The libdat library provides an application with the User Direct Access
Programming Library (uDAPL) 1.2 functions to access the underlying RDMA-able
interconnects. Different uDAPL service providers listed in the DAT static
registry \fBdat.conf\fR(4) can be registered during runtime with the DAT
library. After an application opens an interface adapter belonging to a
particular service provider, all function calls will be redirected to that
service provider's library.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibdat.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined
below for applications. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared
object interfaces.
.SS "uDAPL 1.1"
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBdat_cno_create\fR	\fBdat_cno_free\fR
\fBdat_cno_modify_agent\fR	\fBdat_cno_query\fR
\fBdat_cno_wait\fR	\fBdat_cr_accept\fR
\fBdat_cr_handoff\fR	\fBdat_cr_query\fR
\fBdat_cr_reject\fR	\fBdat_ep_connect\fR
\fBdat_ep_create\fR	\fBdat_ep_disconnect\fR
\fBdat_ep_dup_connect\fR	\fBdat_ep_free\fR
\fBdat_ep_get_status\fR	\fBdat_ep_modify\fR
\fBdat_ep_post_rdma_read\fR	\fBdat_ep_post_rdma_write\fR
\fBdat_ep_post_recv\fR	\fBdat_ep_post_send\fR
\fBdat_ep_query\fR	\fBdat_ep_reset\fR
\fBdat_evd_clear_unwaitable\fR	\fBdat_evd_create\fR
\fBdat_evd_dequeue\fR	\fBdat_evd_disable\fR
\fBdat_evd_enable\fR	\fBdat_evd_free\fR
\fBdat_evd_modify_cno\fR	\fBdat_evd_post_se\fR
\fBdat_evd_query\fR	\fBdat_evd_resize\fR
\fBdat_evd_set_unwaitable\fR	\fBdat_evd_wait\fR
\fBdat_get_consumer_context\fR	\fBdat_get_handle_type\fR
\fBdat_ia_close\fR	\fBdat_ia_open\fR
\fBdat_ia_query\fR	\fBdat_lmr_create\fR
\fBdat_lmr_free\fR	\fBdat_lmr_query\fR
\fBdat_provider_fini\fR	\fBdat_provider_init\fR
\fBdat_psp_create\fR	\fBdat_psp_create_any\fR
\fBdat_psp_free\fR	\fBdat_psp_query\fR
\fBdat_pz_create\fR	\fBdat_pz_free\fR
\fBdat_pz_query\fR	\fBdat_registry_list_providers\fR
\fBdat_rmr_bind\fR	\fBdat_rmr_create\fR
\fBdat_rmr_free\fR	\fBdat_rmr_query\fR
\fBdat_rsp_create\fR	\fBdat_rsp_free\fR
\fBdat_rsp_query\fR	\fBdat_set_consumer_context\fR
\fBdat_strerror\fR	
.TE

.SS "uDAPL 1.2"
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBdat_ep_create_with_srq\fR	\fBdat_ep_recv_query\fR
\fBdat_ep_set_watermark\fR	\fBdat_lmr_sync_rdma_read\fR
\fBdat_lmr_sync_rdma_write\fR	\fBdat_srq_create\fR
\fBdat_srq_free\fR	\fBdat_srq_post_recv\fR
\fBdat_srq_query\fR	\fBdat_srq_resize\fR
\fBdat_srq_set_lw\fR	
.TE

.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibdat.so.1\fR also provides the public interfaces defined
below for service providers.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l .
dat_registry_add_provider	\fBdat_registry_remove_provider\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libdat.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libdat.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdatadm\fR(1M), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBdat.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBlibdat\fR library supports service providers written according to the
uDAPL 1.2 specification. A service provider library has to be a dynamic
loadable shared object with two public entry points exported:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l .
\fBdat_provider_init\fR	\fBdat_provider_fini\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
In terms of installation, the service provider package should include a
\fBservice_provider.conf\fR(4) file. The \fBdatadm\fR(1M) administrative
configuration program should be used to add and remove service provider's
entries in the system-wide \fBdat.conf\fR(4).
