'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIBDOOR 3LIB "Mar 22, 2005"
.SH NAME
libdoor \- doors library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBdoor.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Historically, functions in this library provided programmatic access to doors,
including the ability to create and call them. This functionality now resides
in \fBlibc\fR(3LIB).
.sp
.LP
Doors are a fast light-weight RPC mechanism for secure control transfer between
processes on the same machine. Conceptually, a thread in one process can issue
a call using a door descriptor that causes code to be executed in another
process and then returns using the traditional synchronous RPC model. Doors
can also be used to pass data and file descriptors between processes.
.sp
.LP
This library is maintained to provide backward compatibility for both runtime
and compilation environments. The shared object is implemented as a filter on
\fBlibc.so.1\fR. New application development need not specify \fB-ldoor\fR.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibdoor.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined
below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBdoor_bind\fR	\fBdoor_call\fR
\fBdoor_create\fR	\fBdoor_cred\fR
\fBdoor_info\fR	\fBdoor_return\fR
\fBdoor_revoke\fR	\fBdoor_server_create\fR
\fBdoor_ucred\fR	\fBdoor_unbind\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libdoor.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libdoor.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibc\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Stevens, W. Richard. \fIUNIX Network Programming, Volume 2: Interprocess
Communications, 2/e\fR. Tucson, Ariz.: Prentice Hall, 1999.
