'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIBGSS 3LIB "Aug 2, 2009"
.SH NAME
libgss \- Generic Security Services library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lgss\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBgssapi/gssapi.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The functions in this library are the routines that comprise the Generic
Security Services library.
.sp
.LP
When \fBlibgss\fR fails to load or initialize a mechanism listed in
\fB/etc/gss/mech\fR, a message is sent to \fBsyslog\fR(3C).
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibgss.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined
below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBGSS_C_NT_ANONYMOUS\fR	\fBGSS_C_NT_EXPORT_NAME\fR
\fBGSS_C_NT_HOSTBASED_SERVICE\fR	\fBGSS_C_NT_MACHINE_UID_NAME\fR
\fBGSS_C_NT_STRING_UID_NAME\fR	\fBGSS_C_NT_USER_NAME\fR
\fBgss_accept_sec_context\fR	\fBgss_acquire_cred\fR
\fBgss_add_cred\fR	\fBgss_add_oid_set_member\fR
\fBgss_canonicalize_name\fR	\fBgss_compare_name\fR
\fBgss_context_time\fR	\fBgss_create_empty_oid_set\fR
\fBgss_delete_sec_context\fR	\fBgss_display_name\fR
\fBgss_display_status\fR	\fBgss_duplicate_name\fR
\fBgss_export_name\fR	\fBgss_export_sec_context\fR
\fBgss_get_mic\fR	\fBgss_import_name\fR
\fBgss_import_sec_context\fR	\fBgss_indicate_mechs\fR
\fBgss_init_sec_context\fR	\fBgss_inquire_context\fR
\fBgss_inquire_cred\fR	\fBgss_inquire_cred_by_mech\fR
\fBgss_inquire_mechs_for_name\fR	\fBgss_inquire_names_for_mech\fR
\fBgss_process_context_token\fR	\fBgss_release_buffer\fR
\fBgss_release_cred\fR	\fBgss_release_name\fR
\fBgss_release_oid\fR	\fBgss_release_oid_set\fR
\fBgss_seal\fR	\fBgss_sign\fR
\fBgss_store_cred\fR	\fBgss_test_oid_set_member\fR
\fBgss_unseal\fR	\fBgss_unwrap\fR
\fBgss_verify\fR	\fBgss_verify_mic\fR
\fBgss_wrap\fR	\fBgss_wrap_size_limit\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
There are also the following extensions to the official GSS-API, defined in
\fB<gssapi/gssapi_ext.h>\fR.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBgss_add_buffer_set_member\fR	\fBgss_create_empty_buffer_set\fR
\fBgss_inquire_sec_context_by_oid\fR	\fBgss_release_buffer_set\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libgss.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libgss.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit shared object file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpvs\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(2), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBsyslog\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Security for Developers Guide\fR
