'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2020 Joyent, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH libmvec 3LIB "Feb 27, 2020"
.SH NAME
libmvec \- vector math library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lmvec\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
This library contains function to evaluate common mathematical functions for
several arguments at once. The argument values are specified by one or more
vectors (arrays) of data, and the corresponding result values are stored in
another vector.
.SH INTERFACES
The shared object \fBlibmvec.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined
below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab(	);
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) lw(2.75i)
.
\fBvatan_\fR	\fBvatanf_\fR
\fBvatan2_\fR	\fBvatan2f_\fR
\fBvc_abs_\fR	\fBvc_exp_\fR
\fBvc_log_\fR	\fBvc_pow_\fR
\fBvcos_\fR	\fBvcosf_\fR
\fBvcospi_\fR	\fBvcospif_\fR
\fBvexp_\fR	\fBvexpf_\fR
\fBvhypot_\fR	\fBvhypotf_\fR
\fBvlog_\fR	\fBvlogf_\fR
\fBvpow_\fR	\fBvpowf_\fR
\fBvrhypot_\fR	\fBvrhypotf_\fR
\fBvrsqrt_\fR	\fBvrsqrtf_\fR
\fBvsin_\fR	\fBvsinf_\fR
\fBvsincos_\fR	\fBvsincosf_\fR
\fBvsincospi_\fR	\fBvsincospif_\fR
\fBvsinpi_\fR	\fBvsinpif_\fR
\fBvsqrt_\fR	\fBvsqrtf_\fR
\fBvz_abs_\fR	\fBvz_exp_\fR
\fBvz_log_\fR	\fBvz_pow_\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libmvec.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libmvec.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
.rt
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab(	) box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBcomplex.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBlibm\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
