'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Peter Tribble.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIBTSOL 3LIB "Dec 3, 2017"
.SH NAME
libtsol \- Solaris Trusted Extensions library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
#include <tsol.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Functions in this library provide programmatic access to Solaris Trusted
Extensions features such as labels and Mandatory Access Policy (MAC) on systems
that are configured with Trusted Extensions software.
.SH INTERFACES
.LP
The shared object \fBlibtsol.so.2\fR provides the public interfaces that are
defined below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.SS "Committed Functions"
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBbldominates\fR	\fBblequal\fR
\fBblstrictdom\fR	\fBfgetlabel\fR
\fBgetlabel\fR	\fBgetpathbylabel\fR
\fBgetplabel\fR	\fBgetdevicerange\fR
\fBgetuserrange\fR	\fBgetzoneidbylabel\fR
\fBgetzonelabelbyid\fR	\fBgetzonelabelbyname\fR
\fBgetzonerootbyid\fR	\fBgetzonerootbylabel\fR
\fBgetzonerootbyname\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBm_label_alloc\fR	\fBm_label_dup\fR
\fBm_label_free\fR	\fBsetflabel\fR
\fBstr_to_label\fR
.TE

.SS "Obsolete Functions"
.LP
The following functions are preserved to aid porting.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c
l l .
Function	Committed Replacement
\fBbcleartoh\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbcleartoh_r\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbcleartos\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbltocolor\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbltocolor_r\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbsltoh\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbsltoh_r\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBbsltos\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBh_alloc\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBh_free\fR	\fBlabel_to_str\fR
\fBhtobclear\fR	\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBhtobsl\fR	\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBsbcleartos\fR	\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBsbsltos\fR	\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBstobsl\fR	\fBstr_to_label\fR
\fBstobclear\fR	\fBstr_to_label\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/libtsol.so.2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/lib/64/libtsol.so.2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	T{
See the manual pages for the individual functions.
T}
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBlibtsnet\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
has been configured with Trusted Extensions.
