'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 by Martin C. Shepherd. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
.\" to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of
.\" the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this
.\" permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
.\" OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR
.\" HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING
.\" FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
.\" NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
.\" WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
.\" shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
.\" or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" of the copyright holder.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.TH LIBTECLA 3LIB "Jun 1, 2004"
.SH NAME
libtecla \- interactive command line input library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltecla\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <\fBlibtecla.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This library provides programs with interactive command line editing
facilities, similar to those of the UNIX \fBtcsh\fR shell. In addition to
simple command-line editing, it supports recall of previously entered command
lines, TAB completion of file names or other tokens, and in-line wildcard
expansion of filenames. The internal functions that perform file-name
completion and wild-card expansion are also available externally for optional
use by the calling program.
.SS "Thread Safety"
.sp
.LP
The \fBterminfo\fR functions \fBsetupterm\fR(3CURSES), \fBtigetstr\fR(3CURSES),
\fBtigetnum\fR(3CURSES), and \fBtputs\fR(3CURSES) are not reentrant. This
condition, however, should not prevent use of this library in threaded
applications, since few applications will want to interact with multiple
terminals.
.SH INTERFACES
.sp
.LP
The shared object \fBlibtecla.so.1\fR provides the public interfaces defined
below. See \fBIntro\fR(3) for additional information on shared object
interfaces.
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBcfc_file_start\fR	\fBcfc_literal_escapes\fR
\fBcfc_set_check_fn\fR	\fBcpl_add_completion\fR
\fBcpl_check_exe\fR	\fBcpl_complete_word\fR
\fBcpl_file_completions\fR	\fBcpl_last_error\fR
\fBcpl_list_completions\fR	\fBcpl_recall_matches\fR
\fBcpl_record_error\fR	\fBdel_CplFileConf\fR
\fBdel_ExpandFile\fR	\fBdel_GetLine\fR
\fBdel_PathCache\fR	\fBdel_PcaPathConf\fR
\fBdel_WordCompletion\fR	\fBef_expand_file\fR
\fBef_last_error\fR	\fBef_list_expansions\fR
\fBgl_abandon_line\fR	\fBgl_append_history\fR
\fBgl_automatic_history\fR	\fBgl_bind_keyseq\fR
\fBgl_catch_blocked\fR	\fBgl_change_terminal\fR
\fBgl_clear_history\fR	\fBgl_completion_action\fR
\fBgl_configure_getline\fR	\fBgl_customize_completion\fR
\fBgl_display_text\fR	\fBgl_echo_mode\fR
\fBgl_erase_terminal\fR	\fBgl_error_message\fR
\fBgl_get_line\fR	\fBgl_group_history\fR
\fBgl_handle_signal\fR	\fBgl_ignore_signal\fR
\fBgl_inactivity_timeout\fR	\fBgl_io_mode\fR
\fBgl_last_signal\fR	\fBgl_limit_history\fR
\fBgl_list_signals\fR	\fBgl_load_history\fR
\fBgl_lookup_history\fR	\fBgl_normal_io\fR
\fBgl_pending_io\fR	\fBgl_prompt_style\fR
\fBgl_query_char\fR	\fBgl_range_of_history\fR
\fBgl_raw_io\fR	\fBgl_read_char\fR
\fBgl_register_action\fR	\fBgl_replace_prompt\fR
\fBgl_resize_history\fR	\fBgl_return_status\fR
\fBgl_save_history\fR	\fBgl_set_term_size\fR
\fBgl_show_history\fR	\fBgl_size_of_history\fR
\fBgl_state_of_history\fR	\fBgl_terminal_size\fR
\fBgl_toggle_history\fR	\fBgl_trap_signal\fR
\fBgl_tty_signals\fR	\fBgl_watch_fd\fR
\fBlibtecla_version\fR	\fBnew_CplFileConf\fR
\fBnew_ExpandFile\fR	\fBnew_GetLine\fR
\fBnew_PathCache\fR	\fBnew_PcaPathConf\fR
\fBnew_WordCompletion\fR	\fBpca_last_error\fR
\fBpca_lookup_file\fR	\fBpca_path_completions\fR
\fBpca_scan_path\fR	\fBpca_set_check_fn\fR
\fBppc_file_start\fR	\fBppc_literal_escapes\fR
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libtecla.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
shared object
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/libtecla.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
64-bit shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBenhance\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(3), \fBcpl_complete_word\fR(3TECLA),
\fBef_expand_file\fR(3TECLA), \fBgl_get_line\fR(3TECLA),
\fBgl_io_mode\fR(3TECLA), \fBpca_lookup_file\fR(3TECLA), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBtecla\fR(5)
