'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LGRP_PARENTS 3LGRP "Apr 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
lgrp_parents \- get parents of given lgroup
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_parents\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR, \fBlgrp_id_t\fR \fIchild\fR,
     \fBlgrp_id_t *\fR\fIlgrp_array\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIlgrp_array_size\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_parents()\fR function takes a \fIcookie\fR representing a snapshot
of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) and returns the
number of parent lgroups of the specified lgroup. If \fIlgrp_array\fR is
non-null and the \fIlgrp_array_size\fR is non-zero, the array is filled with as
many of the parent lgroup IDs as will fit given the size of the array. For the
root lgroup, the number of parents returned is 0 and the \fIlgrp_array\fR
argument is not filled in.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_parents()\fR returns the number of parent
lgroup IDs. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_parents()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The specified cookie or lgroup ID is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The specified lgroup ID was not found.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_children\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR(3LGRP),
\fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
