'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LGRP_NLGRPS 3LGRP "Apr 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
lgrp_nlgrps \- get number of lgroups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_nlgrps()\fR function takes a \fIcookie\fR representing a snapshot
of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP). It returns the
number of lgroups in the hierarchy where the number is always at least one.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,\fB lgrp_nlgrps()\fR returns the number of lgroups
in the system. Otherwise, it returns \(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_nlgrps()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIcookie\fR is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_children\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_parents\fR(3LGRP),
\fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
