'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LGRP_COOKIE_STALE 3LGRP "Apr 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
lgrp_cookie_stale \- determine whether snapshot of lgroup hierarchy is stale
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \&.\|.\|.\fR ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-llgrp\fR [ \fIlibrary \&.\|.\|.\fR ]
#include <sys/lgrp_user.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlgrp_cookie_stale\fR(\fBlgrp_cookie_t\fR \fIcookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_cookie_stale()\fR function takes a \fIcookie\fR representing the
snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy obtained from \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) and
returns whether it is stale. The snapshot can become out-of-date for a number
of reasons depending on its view.  If the snapshot was taken with
\fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR, changes in the lgroup hierarchy from dynamic
reconfiguration, CPU on/offline, or other conditions can cause the snapshot to
become out-of-date. A snapshot taken with \fBLGRP_VIEW_CALLER\fR can be
affected by the caller's processor set binding and changes in its processor set
itself, as well as changes in the lgroup hierarchy.
.sp
.LP
If the snapshot needs to be updated, \fBlgrp_fini\fR(3LGRP) should be called
with the old cookie and \fBlgrp_init()\fR should be called to obtain a new
snapshot.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_cookie_stale()\fR returns whether the
cookie is stale. Otherwise, it returns \(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlgrp_cookie_stale()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The cookie is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_fini\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_view\fR(3LGRP),
\fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
