'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AIO.H 3HEAD "Feb 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
aio.h, aio \- asynchronous input and output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <aio.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBaio.h\fR> header defines the \fBaiocb\fR structure which includes the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int               aio_fildes       file descriptor
off_t             aio_offset       file offset
volatile void*    aio_buf          location of buffer
size_t            aio_nbytes       length of transfer
int               aio_reqprio      request priority offset
struct sigevent   aio_sigevent     notification type
int               aio_lio_opcode   listio operation
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This header also includes the following constants:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAIO_ALLDONE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A return value indicating that none of the requested operations could be
canceled since they are already complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAIO_CANCELED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A return value indicating that all requested operations have been canceled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAIO_NOTCANCELED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A return value indicating that some of the requested operations could not be
canceled since they are in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLIO_NOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A \fBlio_listio\fR(3C) element operation option indicating that no transfer is
requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLIO_NOWAIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A \fBlio_listio()\fR synchronization operation indicating that the calling
thread is to continue execution while the \fBlio_listio()\fR operation is being
performed, and notification is to be given when the operation is complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLIO_READ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A \fBlio_listio()\fR element operation option requesting a read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLIO_WAIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A \fBlio_listio()\fR synchronization operation indicating that the calling
thread is to suspend until the \fBlio_listio()\fR operation is complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLIO_WRITE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A \fBlio_listio()\fR element operation option requesting a write.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlseek\fR(2), \fBread\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2), \fBfsync\fR(3C),
\fBlibaio\fR(3LIB), \fBlio_listio\fR(3C)
