.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH FMTMSG.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
fmtmsg.h, fmtmsg \- message display structures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBfmtmsg.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBfmtmsg.h\fR> header defines the following macros, which expand to
constant integer expressions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_HARD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Source of the condition is hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_SOFT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Source of the condition is software.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_FIRM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Source of the condition is firmware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_APPL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Condition detected by application.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_UTIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Condition detected by utility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_OPSYS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Condition detected by operating system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_RECOVER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Recoverable error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_NRECOV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Non-recoverable error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_HALT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Error causing application to halt.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Application has encountered a non-fatal fault.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_WARNING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Application has detected unusual non-error condition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_INFO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Informative message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_NOSEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
No severity level provided for the message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_PRINT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Display message on standard error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_CONSOLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Display message on system console.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The table below indicates the null values and identifiers for \fBfmtmsg\fR(3C)
arguments. The <\fBfmtmsg.h\fR> header defines the macros in the Identifier
column, which expand to constant expressions that expand to expressions of the
type indicated in the Type column:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l l
l l l l .
Argument	Type	Null-Value	Identifier
\fIlabel\fR	\fBchar*\fR	\fB(char*) NULL\fR	\fBMM_NULLLBL\fR
\fIseverity\fR	\fBint\fR	\fB0\fR	\fBMM_NULLSEV\fR
\fIclass\fR	\fBlong\fR	\fB0L\fR	\fBMM_NULLMC\fR
\fItext\fR	\fBchar*\fR	\fB(char*) NULL\fR	\fBMM_NULLTXT\fR
\fIaction\fR	\fBchar*\fR	\fB(char*) NULL\fR	\fBMM_NULLACT\fR
\fItag\fR	\fBchar*\fR	\fB(char*) NULL\fR	\fBMM_NULLTAG\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBfmtmsg.h\fR> header also defines the following macros for use as return
values for \fBfmtmsg()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The function succeeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_NOTOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The function failed completely.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_NOMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The function was unable to generate a message on standard error, but otherwise
succeeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_NOCON\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The function was unable to generate a console message, but otherwise succeeded.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfmtmsg\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
