'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FTW.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
ftw.h, ftw \- file tree traversal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBftw.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBftw.h\fR> header defines the FTW structure that includes the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int base
int level
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fBftw.h\fR> header defines macros for use as values of  the third
argument to the application-supplied function that is  passed as the second
argument to \fBftw()\fR and \fBnftw()\fR (see \fBftw\fR(3C)):
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_F\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_D\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
directory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_DNR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
directory without read permission
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_DP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
directory with subdirectories visited
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_NS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
unknown type; \fBstat()\fR failed
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_SL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
symbolic link
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_SLN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
symbolic link that names a nonexistent file
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBftw.h\fR> header defines macros for use as values of the fourth
argument to \fBnftw()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_PHYS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Physical walk, does not follow symbolic links. Otherwise, \fBnftw()\fR follows
links but does not walk down any path that crosses itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_MOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The walk does not cross a mount point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_DEPTH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
All subdirectories are visited before the directory itself.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFTW_CHDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The walk changes to each direct ory before reading it.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBftw.h\fR> header defines the \fBstat\fR structure and the symbolic
names for \fBst_mode\fR and the file type test macros as described in
<\fBsys/stat.h\fR>.
.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the <\fBftw.h\fR> header might also make visible all symbols from
<\fBsys/stat.h\fR>.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBftw\fR(3C), \fBstat.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
