'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GLOB.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
glob.h, glob \- pathname pattern-matching types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBglob.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBglob.h\fR> header defines the structures and symbolic constants used by
the \fBglob\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The structure type \fBglob_t\fR contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
size_t gl_pathc       /* count of paths matched by pattern */
char   **gl_pathv     /* pointer to a list of matched
                         pathnames */
size_t gl_offs        /* lots to reserve at the beginning
                         of gl_pathv */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following constants are provided as values for the \fBflags\fR argument:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_APPEND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Append generated pathnames to those previously obtained.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_DOOFFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Specify how many null pointers to add to the beginning of \fBgl_pathv\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Cause \fBglob()\fR to return on error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_MARK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Each pathname that is a directory that matches pattern has a slash appended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_NOCHECK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
If pattern does not match any  pathname, then return a list consisting of only
pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_NOESCAPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Disable backslash escaping.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_NOSORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Do not sort the pathnames returned.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following constants are defined as error return values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_ABORTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The scan was stopped because \fBGLOB_ERR\fR was set or \fB(*errfunc)()\fR
returned non-zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_NOMATCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The pattern does not match any existing pathname, and \fBGLOB_NOCHECK\fR was
not set in flags.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_NOSPACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
An attempt to allocate memory failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBGLOB_NOSYS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Reserved.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBglob\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
