'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IN.H 3HEAD "Aug 30, 2002"
.SH NAME
in.h, in \- Internet Protocol family
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <netinet/in.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines the following types through
\fBtypedef\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBin_port_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An unsigned integral type of exactly 16 bits.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBin_addr_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An unsigned integral type of exactly 32 bits. The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header
defines the \fBin_addr\fR structure that includes the following member:
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines the \fBin_addr\fR structure that
includes the following member:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
in_addr_t       s_addr
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines the type \fBsa_family_t\fR as described
in \fBsocket.h\fR(3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines the following macros for use as values
of the \fIlevel\fR argument of \fBgetsockopt()\fR and \fBsetsockopt()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIPPROTO_IP\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Dummy for  \fBIP\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIPPROTO_ICMP\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Control message protocol
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIPPROTO_TCP\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBTCP\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIPPROTO_UDP\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
User datagram protocol The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines the following
macros for use as destination addresses for \fBconnect()\fR, \fBsendmsg()\fR,
and \fBsendto()\fR:
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINADDR_ANY\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Local host address
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBINADDR_BROADCAST\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Broadcast address
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines the \fBsockaddr_in\fR structure that is
used to store addresses for the Internet protocol family.  Values of this type
must be cast to \fBstruct sockaddr\fR for use with the socket interfaces.
.SS "Default"
.LP
For applications that do not require standard-conforming behavior (those that
use the socket interfaces described in section (3SOCKET) of the reference
manual; see \fBIntro\fR(3) and \fBstandards\fR(5)), the <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR>
header defines the \fBsockaddr_in\fR structure that includes the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sa_family_t     sin_family
in_port_t       sin_port
struct in_addr  sin_addr
char            sin_zero[8]
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Standard conforming"
.LP
For applications that require standard-conforming behavior (those that use the
socket interfaces described in section (3XNET) of the reference manual; see
\fBIntro\fR(3) and \fBstandards\fR(5)), the <\fBnetinet/in.h\fR> header defines
the \fBsockaddr_in\fR structure that includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sa_family_t     sin_family
in_port_t       sin_port
struct in_addr  sin_addr
unsigned char   sin_zero[8]
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3), \fBconnect\fR(3SOCKET), \fBconnect\fR(3XNET),
\fBgetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET), \fBgetsockopt\fR(3XNET), \fBsendmsg\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBsendmsg\fR(3XNET), \fBsendto\fR(3SOCKET), \fBsendto\fR(3XNET),
\fBsetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET), \fBsetsockopt\fR(3XNET), \fBsockaddr\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBsocket.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
