'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc.   All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LOCALE.H 3HEAD "Jun 23, 2004"
.SH NAME
locale.h, locale \- category macros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBlocale.h\fR>
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The <\fBlocale.h\fR> header provides a definition for the \fBlconv\fR
structure, which includes the following members. (See the definition of
\fBLC_MONETARY\fR in \fBlocale\fR(5).)
.sp
.in +2
.nf
char         *currency_symbol
char         *decimal_point
char         frac_digits
char         *grouping
char         *int_curr_symbol
char         int_frac_digits
char         int_n_cs_precedes
char         int_n_sep_by_space
char         int_n_sign_posn
char         int_p_cs_precedes
char         int_p_sep_by_space
char         int_p_sign_posn
char         *mon_decimal_point
char         *mon_grouping
char         *mon_thousands_sep
char         *negative_sign
char         n_cs_precedes
char         n_sep_by_space
char         n_sign_posn
char         *positive_sign
char         p_cs_precedes
char         p_sep_by_space
char         p_sign_posn
char         *thousands_sep
.fi
.in -2
.LP
The <\fBlocale.h\fR> header defines \fINULL\fR (as defined in <\fBstddef.h\fR>)
and the following as macros:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LC_ALL
LC_COLLATE
LC_CTYPE
LC_MESSAGES
LC_MONETARY
LC_NUMERIC
LC_TIME
.fi
.in -2
.LP
The preceding expand to distinct integer constant expressions, for use as the
first argument to the \fBsetlocale()\fR function. See \fBsetlocale\fR(3C).
.LP
The <\fBlocale.h\fR> header also defines the following macros, for use with
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LC_ALL_MASK
LC_COLLATE_MASK
LC_CTYPE_MASK
LC_MESSAGES_MASK
LC_MONETARY_MASK
LC_NUMERIC_MASK
LC_TIME_MASK
.fi
.in -2
.LP
In addition, to facilitate the use of per-thread locales with the
.BR uselocale (3C)
function, the
.RB < locale.h >
header defines the following type and macro:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
locale_t
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.RS 6n
An opaque type that refers to a locale constructed through the use of
the
.BR newlocale (3C)
function.
.RE

.sp
.in +2
.nf
LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.RS 6n
A macro which expands to a
.B locale_t
that represents the current global locale as set by
.BR setlocale (3C).
.RE

.LP
Additional macro definitions, beginning with the characters \fBLC_\fR and an
uppercase letter, can also be specified here.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
.BR newlocale (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR uselocale (3C),
.BR localeconv (3C),
.BR stddef.h (3HEAD),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR locale (5),
.BR standards (5)
