.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH MQUEUE.H 3HEAD "Aug 30, 2002"
.SH NAME
mqueue.h, mqueue \- message queues
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <mqueue.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBmqueue.h\fR> header defines the \fBmqd_t\fR type, which is used for
message queue descriptors.  This will not be an array type.  A message queue
descriptor may be implemented using a file descriptor, in which case
applications can open up to at least \fBOPEN_MAX\fR file and message queues.
.sp
.LP
The <\fBmqueue.h\fR> header defines the \fBsigevent\fR structure (as described
in <\fBsignal.h\fR>, see \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD)) and the  \fBmq_attr\fR
structure, which is used in getting and setting the attributes of a message
queue.  Attributes are initially set when the message queue is created.  A
\fBmq_attr\fR structure has the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBlong    mq_flags       message queue flags
long    mq_maxmsg      maximum number of messages
long    mq_msgsize     maximum message size
long    mq_curmsgs     number of messages currently queued\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the <\fBmqueue.h\fR> header may make visible symbols defined in
the headers <\fBfcntl.h\fR>, <\fBsignal.h\fR>, <\fBsys/types.h\fR>, and
<\fBtime.h\fR>.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfcntl.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBtime.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
