.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH POLL.H 3HEAD "Sep 9, 2004"
.SH NAME
poll.h, poll \- definitions for the \fBpoll()\fR function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBpoll.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBpoll.h\fR> header defines the \fBpollfd\fR structure, which includes
the following members:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint fd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
the following descriptor being polled
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshort events\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
the input event flags (see below)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshort revents\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
the output event flags (see below)
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBpoll.h\fR> header defines the following type through \fBtypedef\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnfds_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
an unsigned integer type used for the number of file descriptors
.RE

.sp
.LP
The implementation supports one or more programming environments in which the
width of \fBnfds_t\fR is no greater than the width of type long. The names of
these programming environments can be obtained using the \fBconfstr()\fR
function or the \fBgetconf\fR utility. See \fBconfstr\fR(3C) and
\fBgetconf\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
The following symbolic constants are defined, zero or more of which can be
OR'ed together to form the \fBevents\fR or \fBrevents\fR members  in the
\fBpollfd\fR structure:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Data other than high-priority data can be read without blocking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLRDNORM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Normal data can be read without blocking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLRDBAND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Priority data can be read without blocking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLPRI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
High priority data can be read without blocking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Normal data can be written without blocking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLWRNORM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Equivalent to \fBPOLLOUT\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLWRBAND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Priority data can be written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
An error has occurred (\fBrevents\fR only).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLHUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Device has been disconnected (\fBrevents\fR only).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOLLNVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Invalid \fBfd\fR member (\fBrevents\fR only).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The significance and semantics of normal, priority, and high-priority data are
file and device-specific.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetconf\fR(1), \fBpoll\fR(2), \fBconfstr\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
