.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2022 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\"
.Dd February 19, 2022
.Dt PTHREAD.H 3HEAD
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pthread.h ,
.Nm pthread
.Nd threads
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In pthread.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.In pthread.h
header defines the following symbols:
.Pp
.Bl -inset -offset Ds -compact
.It Dv PTHREAD_BARRIER_SERIAL_THREAD
.It Dv PTHREAD_CANCEL_ASYNCHRONOUS
.It Dv PTHREAD_CANCEL_ENABLE
.It Dv PTHREAD_CANCEL_DEFERRED
.It Dv PTHREAD_CANCEL_DISABLE
.It Dv PTHREAD_CANCELED
.It Dv PTHREAD_COND_INITIALIZER
.It Dv PTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED
.It Dv PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE
.It Dv PTHREAD_EXPLICIT_SCHED
.It Dv PTHREAD_ERRORCHECK_MUTEX_INITIALIZER_NP
.It Dv PTHREAD_INHERIT_SCHED
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_DEFAULT
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_ERRORCHECK
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_INITIALIZER
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_NORMAL
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_RECURSIVE
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_ROBUST
.It Dv PTHREAD_MUTEX_STALLED
.It Dv PTHREAD_ONCE_INIT
.It Dv PTHREAD_PRIO_INHERIT
.It Dv PTHREAD_PRIO_NONE
.It Dv PTHREAD_PRIO_PROTECT
.It Dv PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
.It Dv PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE
.It Dv PTHREAD_RECURSIVE_MUTEX_INITIALIZER_NP
.It Dv PTHREAD_RWLOCK_INITIALIZER
.It Dv PTHREAD_SCOPE_PROCESS
.It Dv PTHREAD_SCOPE_SYSTEM
.El
.Pp
The types listed below are defined as described in
.In sys/types.h .
See
.Xr types.h 3HEAD .
.Pp
.Bl -inset -offset Ds -compact
.It Vt pthread_attr_t
.It Vt pthread_barrier_t
.It Vt pthread_barrierattr_t
.It Vt pthread_cond_t
.It Vt pthread_condattr_t
.It Vt pthread_key_t
.It Vt pthread_mutex_t
.It Vt pthread_mutexattr_t
.It Vt pthread_once_t
.It Vt pthread_rwlock_t
.It Vt pthread_rwlockattr_t
.It Vt pthread_spinlock_t
.It Vt pthread_t
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_attr_getguardsize 3C ,
.Xr pthread_attr_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_attr_setscope 3C ,
.Xr pthread_cancel 3C ,
.Xr pthread_cleanup_pop 3C ,
.Xr pthread_cond_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_cond_signal 3C ,
.Xr pthread_cond_wait 3C ,
.Xr pthread_condattr_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_create 3C ,
.Xr pthread_detach 3C ,
.Xr pthread_equal 3C ,
.Xr pthread_exit 3C ,
.Xr pthread_getconcurrency 3C ,
.Xr pthread_getschedparam 3C ,
.Xr pthread_join 3C ,
.Xr pthread_key_create 3C ,
.Xr pthread_key_delete 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutex_consistent 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutex_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutex_lock 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutex_setprioceiling 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutexattr_getprotocol 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutexattr_getrobust 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutexattr_gettype 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutexattr_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_once 3C ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_rdlock 3C ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_unlock 3C ,
.Xr pthread_rwlock_wrlock 3C ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared 3C ,
.Xr pthread_rwlockattr_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_self 3C ,
.Xr pthread_setcancelstate 3C ,
.Xr pthread_setspecific 3C ,
.Xr sched.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr time.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr types.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr attributes 7
