'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH REGEX.H 3HEAD "Sep 9, 2004"
.SH NAME
regex.h, regex \- regular expression matching types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBregex.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBregex.h\fR> header defines the structures and symbolic constants used
by the \fBregcomp()\fR, \fBregexec()\fR, \fBregerror()\fR, and \fBregfree()\fR
functions. See \fBregcomp\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The structure type \fBregex_t\fR contains the following member:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
size_t re_nsub     number of parenthesized subexpressions
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The type \fBsize_t\fR is defined as described in <\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See
\fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
The type \fBregoff_t\fR is defined as a signed integer type that can hold the
largest value that can be stored in either a type \fBoff_t\fR or type
\fBssize_t\fR. The structure type \fBregmatch_t\fR contains the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
regoff_t rm_so     byte offset from start of string to start
                   of substring
regoff_t rm_eo     byte offset from start of string of the
                   first character after the end of substring
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Values for the \fIcflags\fR parameter to the \fBregcomp\fR function are as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_EXTENDED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
use extended regular expressions
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ICASE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
ignore case in match
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_NOSUB\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
report only success or fail in \fBregexec()\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_NEWLINE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
change the handling of \fBNEWLINE\fR character
.RE

.sp
.LP
Values for the \fIeflags\fR parameter to the \fBregexec()\fR function are as
follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_NOTBOL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The circumflex character (^), when taken as a special character, does not match
the beginning of string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_NOTEOL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The dollar sign ($), when taken as a special character, does not match the end
of string.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following constants are defined as error return values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_NOMATCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
\fBregexec()\fR failed to match.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_BADPAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Invalid regular expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ECOLLATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Invalid collating element referenced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ECTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Invalid character class type referenced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_EESCAPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Trailing '\e' in pattern.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ESUBREG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Number in \fIdigit\fR invalid or in error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_EBRACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
"[]" imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_EPAREN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
"\e(\e)" or "()" imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_EBRACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
"\{\}" imbalance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_BADBR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Content of "\{\}" invalid: not a  number, number too large, more than two
numbers, first larger than second.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Invalid endpoint in range expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ESPACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Out of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_BADRPT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
\&'?', '*', or '+' not preceded by valid regular expression.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBREG_ENOSYS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Reserved.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBregcomp\fR(3C), \fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
