'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RESOURCE.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
resource.h, resource \- definitions for resource operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/resource.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header defines the symbolic constants listed below
as possible values of the \fIwhich\fR argument of \fBgetpriority()\fR and
\fBsetpriority()\fR. See \fBgetpriority\fR(3C).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPRIO_PROCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
identifies the \fIwho\fR argument as a process ID
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPRIO_PGRP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
identifies the \fIwho\fR argument as a process group ID
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPRIO_USER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
identifies the \fIwho\fR argument as a user  ID
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following type is defined through \fBtypedef\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrlim_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
unsigned integer type used for limit values
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following symbolic constants are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIM_INFINITY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
a value of \fBrlim_t\fR indicating no limit
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIM_SAVED_MAX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
a value of type \fBrlim_t\fR indicating an unrepresentable saved hard limit
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIM_SAVED_CUR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
a value of type \fBrlim_t\fR indicating an unrepresentable saved soft limit
.RE

.sp
.LP
The symbolic constants listed below are defined as possible values of the
\fIwho\fR parameter of \fBgetrusage()\fR. See \fBgetrusage\fR(3C).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRUSAGE_SELF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
returns information about the current process
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRUSAGE_CHILDREN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
returns information about children of the current process
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header defines the \fBrlimit\fR structure, which
includes  the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
rlim_t rlim_cur     /* the current (soft) limit */
rlim_t rlim_max     /* the hard limit */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header defines the \fBrusage\fR structure, which
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct timeval ru_utime     /* user time used */
struct timeval ru_stime     /* system time used */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBtimeval\fR structure is defined as described in <\fBsys/time.h\fR>.
.sp
.LP
The symbolic constants listed below are defined as possible values for the
\fIresource\fR argument of \fBgetrlimit()\fR and \fBsetrlimit()\fR. See
\fBgetrlimit\fR(2).
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_CORE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on size of core dump file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_CPU\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on CPU time per process
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_DATA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on data segment size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_FSIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on file size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_NOFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on number of open files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_STACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on stack size
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRLIMIT_AS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
limit on address space size
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBid_t\fR type is defined through \fBtypedef\fR as described in
<\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See \fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
Inclusion of the <\fBsys/resource.h\fR> header can also make visible all
symbols from <\fBsys/time.h\fR>. See \fBtime.h\fR(3HEAD).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetrlimit\fR(2), \fBgetpriority\fR(3C), \fBtime.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
