.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH SHM.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
shm.h, shm \-  shared memory facility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/shm.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/shm.h\fR> header defines the following symbolic constants:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHM_RDONLY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
attach read-only (else read-write)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHM_RND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
round attach address to SHMLBA
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/shm.h\fR> header defines the following symbolic value:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSHMLBA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
segment low boundary address multiple
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following data types are defined through \fBtypedef\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBshmatt_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Unsigned integer used for the number of current attaches that must be able to
store values at least as large as a type unsigned short.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBshmid_ds\fR structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct ipc_perm shm_perm       /* operation permission structure */
size_t          shm_segsz      /* size of segment in bytes */
pid_t           shm_lpid       /* process ID of last shared memory
                                  operation */
pid_t           shm_cpid       /* process ID of creator */
shmatt_t        shm_nattch     /* number of current attaches */
time_t          shm_atime      /* time of last \fBshmat()\fR */
time_t          shm_dtime      /* time of last \fBshmdt()\fR */
time_t          shm_ctime      /* time of last change by \fBshmctl()\fR */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBpid_t\fR, \fBtime_t\fR, \fBkey_t\fR, and \fBsize_t\fR types are defined
as described in <\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See \fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
In addition, all of the symbols from <\fBsys/ipc.h\fR> are defined when this
header is included.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBshmctl\fR(2), \fBshmget\fR(2), \fBshmop\fR(2), \fBipc.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
