.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH STATVFS.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
statvfs.h, statvfs \- VFS File System information structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBsys/statvfs.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBsys/statvfs.h\fR> header defines the \fBstatvfs\fR structure, which
includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unsigned long f_bsize     /* file system block
                             size */
unsigned long f_frsize    /* fundamental file system block
                             size */
fsblkcnt_t    f_blocks    /* total number of blocks on file
                             system in units of \fBf_frsize\fR */
fsblkcnt_t    f_bfree     /* total number of free blocks */
fsblkcnt_t    f_bavail    /* number of free blocks available
                             to non-privileged process */
fsfilcnt_t    f_files     /* total number of file serial
                             numbers */
fsfilcnt_t    f_ffree     /* total number of free file serial
                             numbers */
fsfilcnt_t    f_favail    /* number of file serial numbers
                             available to non-privileged
unsigned long f_fsid      /* process file system ID */
unsigned long f_flag      /* bit mask of \fBf_flag\fR values */
unsigned long f_namemax   /* maximum filename length */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBfsblkcnt_t\fR and \fBfsfilcnt_t\fR types are defined as described in
<\fBsys/types.h\fR>. See \fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
The following flags for the \fBf_flag\fR member are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBST_RDONLY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
read-only file system
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBST_NOSUID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
does not support \fBsetuid()\fR/\fBsetgid()\fR semantics
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstatvfs\fR(2), \fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
