.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2024 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd October 17, 2024
.Dt STDBIT.H 3HEAD
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm stdbit.h
.Nd bit and byte utilities
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdbit.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.In stdbit.h
header provides support for C23 bit and byte utilities.
.Pp
The
.In stdbit.h
header provides the ability to determine the endian mode of the system
through a series of preprocessor macros at compilation time.
For more information and examples of how the endian ordering impacts
data layout, see
.Xr endian 7 .
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv __STDC_ENDIAN_LITTLE__
This macro is an integer that represents a little-endian byte order.
.It Dv __STDC_ENDIAN_BIG__
This macro is an integer that represents a big-endian byte order.
.It Dv __STDC_ENDIAN_NATIVE__
This macro will be defined to indicate the byte order of the system and
generally be defined to either
.Dv __STDC_ENDIAN_LITTLE__
or
.Dv __STDC_ENDIAN_BIG__ .
While uncommon and not supported by illumos, if the system is neither
little- or big-endian, then
.Dv __STDC_ENDIAN_NATIVE__
will be defined to a different, platform-defined value.
.El
.Pp
This functionality is analogous to that found in
.Xr endian.h 3HEAD ,
but unlike
.Xr endian.h 3HEAD ,
this header is standardized and a part of C23.
.Pp
The
.In stdbit.h
header makes available a number of different families of functions which
operate on both fixed size integers and have generic forms.
The generic forms require support for at least C23 to be requested,
while the non-generic forms are always made available.
These families are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xr stdc_bit_ceil 3C
Finds the smallest power of two that is equal to or larger than a given
value.
.It Xr stdc_bit_floor 3C
Finds the largest power of two that is equal to or less than a given
value.
.It Xr stdc_bit_width 3C
Determines the minimum number of bits required to store a given value.
.It Xr stdc_count_ones 3C
Counts the number of one bits in a value.
This is sometimes called a population count.
.It Xr stdc_count_zeros 3C
Counts the number of zero bits in a value.
.It Xr stdc_first_leading_one 3C
Finds the first one bit starting from the most significant bit.
.It Xr stdc_first_leading_zero 3C
Finds the first zero bit starting from the most significant bit.
.It Xr stdc_first_trailing_one 3C
Finds the first one bit starting from the least significant bit.
This is sometimes called find first set.
.It Xr stdc_first_trailing_zero 3C
Finds the first one zero starting from the least significant bit.
.It Xr stdc_has_single_bit 3C
Determines whether or not a value only has a single bit set.
.It Xr stdc_leading_ones 3C
Counts the number of consecutive one bits starting from the most
significant bit.
.It Xr stdc_leading_zeros 3C
Counts the number of consecutive zero bits starting from the most
significant bit.
.It Xr stdc_trailing_ones 3C
Counts the number of consecutive one bits starting from the least
significant bit.
.It Xr stdc_trailing_zeros 3C
Counts the number of consecutive zero bits starting from the least
significant bit.
.El
.Pp
This same functionality is made available to device drivers through
.In sys/stdbit.h .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stdc_bit_ceil 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_floor 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_width 3C ,
.Xr stdc_count_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_count_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_leading_one 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_leading_zero 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_trailing_one 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_trailing_zero 3C ,
.Xr stdc_has_single_bit 3C ,
.Xr stdc_leading_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_leading_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdc_trailing_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_trailing_zeros 3C ,
.Xr endian.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr endian 7
