'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STDLIB.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
stdlib.h, stdlib \- standard library definitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBstdlib.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBstdlib.h\fR> header defines the following macros:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEXIT_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Unsuccessful termination for \fBexit()\fR; evaluates to a non-zero value. See
\fBexit\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEXIT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Successful termination for \fBexit()\fR; evaluates to 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNULL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Null pointer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB{\fBRAND_MAX\fR}\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Maximum value returned by \fBrand()\fR; at least 32767. See \fBrand\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB{\fBMB_CUR_MAX\fR}\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Integer expression whose value is the maximum number of bytes in a character
specified by the current locale.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following data types are defined through \fBtypedef\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdiv_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
structure type returned by the \fBdiv()\fR function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBldiv_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
structure type returned by the \fBldiv()\fR function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlldiv_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
structure type returned by the \fBlldiv()\fR function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsize_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
as described in <\fBstddef.h\fR>
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwchar_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
as described in <\fBstddef.h\fR>
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBdiv\fR(3C), which covers \fBdiv()\fR, \fBldiv()\fR, and \fBlldiv()\fR,
and \fBstddef.h\fR(3HEAD).
.sp
.LP
In addition, the symbolic names and macros listed below are defined as in
<\fBsys/wait.h\fR>, for use in decoding the return value from \fBsystem()\fR.
See \fBwait.h\fR(3HEAD) and \fBsystem\fR(3C).
.sp
.in +2
.nf
WNOHANG
WUNTRACED
WEXITSTATUS
WIFEXITED
WIFSIGNALED
WIFSTOPPED
WSTOPSIG
WTERMSIG
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBa64l\fR(3C), \fBabort\fR(3C), \fBabs\fR(3C), \fBatexit\fR(3C),
\fBbsearch\fR(3C), \fBdiv\fR(3C), \fBdrand48\fR(3C), \fBexit\fR(3C),
\fBgetenv\fR(3C), \fBgetsubopt\fR(3C), \fBgrantpt\fR(3C), \fBmalloc\fR(3C),
\fBmblen\fR(3C), \fBmbstowcs\fR(3C), \fBmbtowc\fR(3C), \fBmkstemp\fR(3C),
\fBptsname\fR(3C), \fBputenv\fR(3C), \fBqsort\fR(3C), \fBrandom\fR(3C),
\fBrealpath\fR(3C), \fBstrtod\fR(3C), \fBstrtol\fR(3C), \fBstrtoul\fR(3C),
\fBunlockpt\fR(3C), \fBwcstombs\fR(3C), \fBwctomb\fR(3C),
\fBlimits.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBmath.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBstddef.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBtypes.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBwait.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
