.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2020 Robert Mustacchi
.\"
.Dd April 22, 2020
.Dt UCHAR.H 3HEAD
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm uchar.h
.Nd unicode utilities header
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In uchar.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.In uchar.h
header provides support for the C11 Unicode utilities.
The types and functions provide means for working with data encoded as
UTF-16 and UTF-32.
When working in non-Unicode locales, these types may not represent
Unicode code points.
.Pp
The
.In uchar.h
header defines the following types:
.Bl -tag -width Vt
.It Vt char16_t
An unsigned integer that can represent 16-bit characters, generally a
single single UTF-16 code unit.
A Unicode code point may be one or two UTF-16 code units due to
surrogate pairs.
.It Vt char32_t
An unsigned integer that can represent 32-bit characters, generally a
single UTF-32 code unit.
.It Vt size_t
An unsigned integer that represents the size of various objects.
This can hold the result of the
.Sy sizeof
operator.
See also
.Xr stddef.h 3HEAD .
.It Vt mbstate_t
An object that holds the state for converting between character
sequences and wide characters
.Po
.Vt wchar_t ,
.Vt char16_t ,
.Vt char32_t
.Pc .
See also,
.Xr wchar.h 3HEAD .
.El
The
.In uchar.h
header also defines the following functions which are used to convert
between
.Vt char16_t
and
.Vt char32_t
sequences and other character sequences:
.Bl -tag -width cr16rtomb
.It Xr c16rtomb 3C
Convert
.Vt char16_t
sequences to multi-byte character sequences.
.It Xr c32rtomb 3C
Convert
.Vt char32_t
sequences to multi-byte character sequences.
.It Xr mbrtoc16 3C
Convert multi-byte character sequences to
.Vt char16_t
sequences.
.It Xr mbrtoc32 3C
Convert multi-byte character sequences to
.Vt char32_t
sequences.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr c16rtomb 3C ,
.Xr c32rtomb 3C ,
.Xr mbrtoc16 3C ,
.Xr mbrtoc32 3C ,
.Xr stddef.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr wchar.h 3HEAD
