'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH VALUES.H 3HEAD "Mar 2, 1993"
.SH NAME
values.h, values \- machine-dependent values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <values.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This file contains a set of manifest constants, conditionally defined for
particular processor architectures.
.sp
.LP
The model assumed for integers is binary representation (one's or two's
complement), where the sign is represented by the value of the high-order bit.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBBITS(\fR\fBtype\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The number of bits in a specified type (for example, \fBint\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHIBITS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The value of a short integer with only the high-order bit set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHIBITL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The value of a long integer with only the high-order bit set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBHIBITI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The value of a regular integer with only the high-order bit set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAXSHORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The maximum value of a signed short integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAXLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The maximum value of a signed long integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAXINT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The maximum value of a signed regular integer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAXFLOAT\fR, \fBLN_MAXFLOAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The maximum value of a single-precision floating-point number, and its natural
logarithm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMAXDOUBLE\fR, \fBLN_MAXDOUBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The maximum value of a double-precision floating-point number, and its natural
logarithm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMINFLOAT\fR, \fBLN_MINFLOAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The minimum positive value of a single-precision floating-point number, and its
natural logarithm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMINDOUBLE\fR, \fBLN_MINDOUBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The minimum positive value of a double-precision floating-point number, and its
natural logarithm.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFSIGNIF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The number of significant bits in the mantissa of a single-precision
floating-point number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDSIGNIF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The number of significant bits in the mantissa of a double-precision
floating-point number.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(3) \fBmath.h\fR(3HEAD)
