.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH WORDEXP.H 3HEAD "Sep 10, 2004"
.SH NAME
wordexp.h, wordexp \- word-expansion types
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <\fBwordexp.h\fR>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The <\fBwordexp.h\fR> header defines the structures and symbolic constants used
by the \fBwordexp()\fR and \fBwordfree()\fR functions. See \fBwordexp\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The structure type \fBwordexp_t\fR contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
size_t we_wordc        /* count of words matched by words */
char   **we_wordv      /* pointer to list of expanded words */
size_t we_offs         /* slots to reserve at the beginning
                          of we_wordv */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fIflags\fR argument to the \fBwordexp()\fR function is the
bitwise-inclusive OR of the following flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_APPEND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Append words to those previously generated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_DOOFFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Number of null pointers to prepend to \fBwe_wordv\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_NOCMD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Fail if command substitution is requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_REUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fBpwordexp\fR argument was passed to a previous successful call to
\fBwordexp()\fR, and has not been passed to \fBwordfree()\fR. The result is the
same as if the application had called \fBwordfree()\fR and then called
\fBwordexp()\fR without \fBWRDE_REUSE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_SHOWERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Do not redirect \fBstderr\fR to \fB/dev/null\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_UNDEF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Report error on an attempt to expand an undefined shell variable.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following constants are defined as error return values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_BADCHAR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
One of the unquoted
characters\(em<newline>, '|', '&', ';', '<', '>', '(', ')', '{', '}'\(emappears in words in an inappropriate context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_BADVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Reference to undefined shell variable when \fBWRDE_UNDEF\fR is set in
\fIflags\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_CMDSUB\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Command substitution requested when \fBWRDE_NOCMD\fR was set in \fIflags\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_NOSPACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Attempt to allocate memory failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_NOSYS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Reserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWRDE_SYNTAX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Shell syntax error, such as unbalanced parentheses or unterminated string.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The <\fBwordexp.h\fR> header defines the following type:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsize_t\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
As described in <\fBstddef.h\fR>.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBwordexp\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
