.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2022 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd September 17, 2022
.Dt GPIO 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gpio ,
.Nm dpio
.Nd General and Dedicated Purpose I/O
.Sh DESCRIPTION
General Purpose I/Os
.Pq gpio
are a common type of interface found in various microprocessors, ASICs,
and other types of devices.
A GPIO is functionality that hardware exposes that allows software to
observe and control the state of a particular pin
.Pq or set of pins
on the device.
These hardware pins may be connected to any number of different things
ranging from enable and control lines, sensors, LEDs, or even a more
complex hardware peripheral.
.Pp
Software control of a GPIO generally gives you the ability to do things
like:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Read the current logic value that the hardware sees on the pin
.It
Set the logical output value for a pin
.It
Control internal aspects such as integrated pull-up and pull-down
resistors, interrupt generation, and more.
.El
.Pp
The OS provides a dedicated subsystem for manipulating and interfacing
with GPIOs in hardware.
The rest of this manual goes into details about that subsystem, ways to
constrain GPIOs for safety, and what tooling is available.
.Ss GPIO Subsystem
Device drivers register with the kernel GPIO subsystem which the OS
organizes as a series of named GPIO Controllers.
Each controller itself then enumerates a series of GPIOs that have a
name and controller-specific ID which is used to manipulate the GPIO.
In general, while tooling requires IDs, names are what GPIO controllers
guarantee the stability of.
.Pp
Each GPIO has a series of attributes that describe the different
properties of the GPIO.
The attributes of a GPIO are specific to the device driver that provides
it.
While most GPIO controllers provide similar features, the specifics
often vary quite particularly.
Let's take the example of control over integrated pull-up and pull-down
resistors.
Some hardware offers a very simple option of indicating whether there is
a pull-up, pull-down, or none while others require you to specify the
strength of the resistor, which of course varies from part to part
.Pq and some devices only let you control the strength in one direction ,
and then some hardware actually lets you enable both the pull-up and
pull-down.
.Pp
For concepts which are trickier to deal with, such as the drive strength
or rise and fall times of signals, this turns into a larger mess.
And of course, the last thing that is important to keep in mind is that
not all GPIOs on a given controller are necessarily the same.
As such, the OS does not try to commonize the different attributes.
Instead, for each attribute, the following information is provided:
.Bl -bullet
.It
The attribute's name.
A colon character
.Po
.Do
:
.Dc
.Pc
separates the provider from the attribute itself.
.It
The attribute's current value.
.It
The set of possible values are for an attribute.
This allows for discoverability of what is allowed.
.It
Whether the attribute is read-only or read-write.
.El
.Pp
To make this concrete, here is an example of a GPIO's attributes as
provided by the
.Xr gpioadm 8
utility:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
ATTR                  PERM  VALUE            POSSIBLE
name                  r-    EGPIO9_3         --
zen:pad_name          r-    BP_AGPIO9_3      --
zen:pin               r-    CY41             --
zen:pad_type          r-    gpio             --
zen:caps              r-    --               --
zen:output_driver     r-    push-pull        push-pull
zen:voltage           r-    3.3V             3.3V
zen:drive_strength    rw    40R              40R,80R
zen:output            rw    disabled         disabled,low,high
zen:input             r-    low              low,high
zen:debounce_mode     rw    none             none,keep-low-glitch,
                                             keep-high-glitch,
                                             remove-glitch
zen:debounce_unit     rw    61us             61us,244us,15.6ms,62.5ms
zen:debounce_count    rw    0x0              --
zen:trigger_mode      rw    edge/high        edge/high,edge/low,
                                             edge/both,level/high,
                                             level/low
zen:status            r-    --               --
zen:pull              rw    disabled         disabled,down,4k-up,
                                             8k-up
zen:raw_reg           r-    0x440000         --
.Ed
.Pp
Multiple attributes of a GPIO may be set at once.
.Ss Hardware Safety
Incorrect usage of GPIOs
.Sy will damage
your system.
The way that GPIOs are used will vary from product to product and just
because a GPIO is used in some way on one system has no bearing on
another.
The GPIO subsystem on its own cannot know what the hardware designer
intended for a pin and while one may have the ability to make a pin
begin driving an output, if it is actually expected to be an input this
can lead to two devices both trying to drive a connected signal and
irreparably damaging both devices!
.Ss Dedicated Purpose I/Os
To deal with this more complicated reality and the fact that GPIO
attributes vary wildly, the operating system has a second concept which
are called Dedicated Purpose I/Os
.Pq DPIO
which is designed to be used more directly by both software in the
platform
.Pq e.g. fault management
or by other end-user applications.
.Pp
A DPIO creates a named character device in
.Pa /dev/dpio
that has the following properties:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Reading the device
.Pq if allowed
returns the current pin's status.
In addition, if the controller supports interrupts, the device can be
polled through
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr port_get 3C ,
etc. for when its input changes.
.It
Writing to the device
.Pq if allowed
changes the output level, allowing one to set it to one of disabled,
low, or high.
.It
The device can have a semantic name that reflects its actual usage and
abstracts away the question of which pin on which GPIO controller it is
found on.
A DPIO's name is global to the system while a GPIO's name is scoped to a
GPIO controller.
.It
Exclusive access to the device can be granted by using the
.Dv O_EXCL
flag with
.Xr open 2 .
If a process has exclusive access, then no one else will be able to open
the device and read or write to it.
Similarly, if one or more processes have the device open, a request for
exclusive access will fail.
In both cases
.Er EBUSY
is returned by the underlying kgpio driver.
.It
All other attributes of the underlying GPIO are frozen and cannot be
manipulated.
.It
The DPIO can also be constrained such that it can only be used by the
kernel and accessible by layered opens through functions such as
.Xr ldi_open_by_name 9F .
.El
.Ss Utilities and Programming Interfaces
The GPIO and DPIO subsystems are evolving interfaces in the operating
system.
To discover controllers, GPIOs, and DPIOs, privileged users can use the
.Xr gpioadm 8
utility.
This allows for getting and setting the attributes of GPIOs as well as
creating and destroying DPIOs from GPIOs.
.Pp
.Xr gpioadm 8
is implemented in terms of a system internal library called libxpio
which can be used to manipulate and get information about GPIOs and
DPIOs.
This is itself built on-top of private user/kernel interfaces provided by
the
.Xr kgpio 4D
driver.
.Pp
The DPIO interface is provided in
.In sys/gpio/dpio.h .
All DPIOs show up under
.Pa /dev/dpio
in the file system and the character devices support the various
.Xr read 2
and
.Xr write 2
families of operations.
Unlike normal files, the DPIO character devices are not seekable.
Both reads and writes must be exactly 4 bytes in size.
Reads return the
.Vt dpio_input_t
enumeration which currently has two values
.Pq though more may be added in the future :
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Dv DPIO_INPUT_LOW
This indicates that a logical low value was read in from the underlying
GPIO.
.It Dv DPIO_INPUT_HIGH
This indicates that a logical high value was read in from the underlying
GPIO.
.El
.Pp
It's worth noting that any hardware-specific changes to the input values
such as polarity inversion control will have already been applied to the
value.
The actual thresholds for what constitutes a logic high and low are
device dependent.
.Pp
The write interface uses the
.Vt dpio_output_t
enumeration values which are:
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Dv DPIO_OUTPUT_LOW
This indicates that a logical low value should be driven on the pin.
.It Dv DPIO_OUTPUT_HIGH
This indicates that a logical high value should be driven on the pin.
.It Dv DPIO_OUTPUT_DISABLED
Disables the generation of any output.
This is particularly useful for open-drain based systems.
.El
.Pp
Like with reads, the voltage values are device dependent.
In addition, someone who has the device open may use the
.Dv DPIO_IOC_CUROUT
ioctl to obtain information about what the current output value is set
to.
.Pp
All DPIO interfaces are still evolving and subject to change.
.Ss I/O Multiplexing
Many complex SoCs
.Pq system-on-chip
have a way of switching what internal peripheral is actually using a
specific pin.
This peripheral may be a GPIO or it could be an entirely different
device like a SPI controller, serial port, I2C, or more.
At this time, the GPIO subsystem on its own does not manipulate this
underlying mux and consumers of the platform will need to be aware of
that.
In the future, where appropriate for the controller, this subsystem will
be integrated with this underlying mux to create a more holistic and
useful experience.
.Ss GPIO Providers
GPIO providers are kernel drivers that interface with a hardware GPIO
controller.
They expose the attributes, which are passed around as a series of
.Vt nvlist_t
.Po
.Xr libnvpair 3LIB
.Pc
structures.
Attributes are either passed as an nvlist string or uint32 and then each
attribute also contains optional metadata around the attribute's
permissions and what values are possible for this particular GPIO.
Attributes are allowed to vary from GPIO to GPIO.
libxpio provides logic to translate anything that isn't in a string-form
into something that is human-readable.
This was done to allow for providers and programmatic interfaces to work
in a more natural way
.Pq e.g. using enumerations and other numeric values
while still providing consumers something useful to use.
.Pp
The core kernel GPIO driver,
.Xr kgpio 4D ,
takes care of dealing with the traditional character device interfaces,
minor nodes, and all of the logic around creating, destroying, and
managing DPIOs.
This in turn allows the GPIO provider drivers to be simpler and focus on
the interface to hardware.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr port_get 3C ,
.Xr libnvpair 3LIB ,
.Xr kgpio 4D ,
.Xr gpioadm 8 ,
.Xr ldi_open_by_name 9F
