'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ACL 5 "Nov 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
acl \- Access Control Lists
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Access control lists (ACLs) are discretionary access control mechanisms that
grant and deny access to files and directories. Two different ACL models are
supported in the Solaris release: POSIX-draft ACLs and NFSv4 ACLs.
.sp
.LP
The older, POSIX-draft model is supported by the UFS file system. This model is
based on a withdrawn ACL POSIX specification that was never standardized. It
was subsequently withdrawn by the POSIX committee.
.sp
.LP
The other model is based on the standards of the NFSv4 working group and is an
approved standard from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). The ZFS file
system uses the NFSv4 model, and provides richer semantics and finer grained
permission capabilities than the POSIX-draft model.
.SS "\fBPOSIX\fR-draft \fBACL\fRs"
.LP
POSIX-draft ACLs provide an alternative security mechanism to basic UNIX file
permissions in the Solaris release. Their purpose is to further restrict access
to files and directories or to extend permissions to a particular user. ACLs
can be used to change the permissions for the standard owner, group and other
class bits of a file's mode. ACLs can give additional users and groups access
to the file. A directory can also have a special kind of ACL called a
\fBdefault\fR ACL, which defines ACL entries to be inherited by descendents of
the directory. POSIX-draft ACLs have an ACL entry called \fBmask\fR. The mask
defines the maximum permissions that can be granted to additional user and
group entries. Whenever a file is created or its mode is changed by
\fBchmod\fR(1) or \fBchmod\fR(2), the mask is recomputed. It is recomputed to
be the group permission defined in the mode passed to \fBchmod\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
The POSIX-draft ACL model uses the standard \fBrwx\fR model of traditional UNIX
permissions.
.sp
.LP
An ACL is represented as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIacl_entry\fR[,\fIacl_entry\fR]...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Each \fIacl_entry\fR contains one ACL entry. An ACL entry is represented by two
or three colon-separated(\fB:\fR) fields.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR:[\fIuid\fR]:\fIperms\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
If \fIuid\fR blank, it represents the file owner.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIgroup\fR:[\fIgid\fR]:\fIperms\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
If \fIgid\fR is blank, it represents the owning group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIother\fR:\fIperms\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Represents the file other class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImask\fR:\fIperms\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Defines the \fBMAX\fR permission to hand out.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For example to give user \fBjoe\fR read and write permissions, the ACL entry is
specified as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
user:joe:rw-
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "\fBNFS\fRv4 \fBACL\fRs"
.LP
NFSv4 ACL model is based loosely on the Windows NT ACL model. NFSv4 ACLs
provide a much richer ACL model than POSIX-draft ACLs.
.sp
.LP
The major differences between NFSv4 and POSIX-draft ACLs are as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
NFSv4 ACLs provide finer grained permissions than the \fBrwx\fR model.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
NFSv4 ACLs allow for both \fBALLOW\fR and \fBDENY\fR entries.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
NFSv4 ACLs provide a rich set of inheritance semantics. POSIX ACLs also have
inheritance, but with the NFSv4 model you can control the following inheritance
features:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Whether inheritance cascades to both files and directories or only to files or
directories.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In the case of directories, you can indicate whether inheritance is applied to
the directory itself, to just one level of subdirectories, or cascades to all
subdirectories of the directory.
.RE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
NFSv4 ACLs provide a mechanism for hooking into a system's audit trail.
Currently, Solaris does not support this mechanism.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
NFSv4 ACLs enable adminstrators to specify the order in which ACL entries are
checked. With POSIX-draft ACLs the file system reorders ACL entries into a well
defined, strict access, checking order.
.RE
.sp
.LP
POSIX-draft ACL semantics can be achieved with NFSv4 ACLs. However, only some
NFSv4 ACLs can be translated to equivalent POSIX-draft ACLs.
.sp
.LP
Permissions can be specified in three different \fBchmod\fR ACL formats:
verbose, compact, or positional. The verbose format uses words to indicate that
the permissions are separated with a forward slash (\fB/\fR) character. Compact
format uses the permission letters and positional format uses the permission
letters or the hypen (\fB-\fR) to identify no permissions.
.sp
.LP
The permissions for verbose mode and their abbreviated form in parentheses for
compact and positional mode are described as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_data (\fBr\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to read the data of the file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBlist_directory (\fBr\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to list the contents of a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_data (\fBw\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to modify a file's data anywhere in the file's offset range. This
includes the ability to grow the file or write to any arbitrary offset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBadd_file (\fBw\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to add a new file to a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBappend_data (\fBp\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The ability to modify the file's data, but only starting at EOF. Currently,
this permission is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBadd_subdirectory (\fBp\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to create a subdirectory to a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_xattr (\fBR\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The ability to read the extended attributes of a file or do a lookup in the
extended attributes directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_xattr (\fBW\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The ability to create extended attributes or write to the extended attributes
directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBexecute (\fBx\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to execute a file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_attributes (\fBa\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The ability to read basic attributes (non-ACLs) of a file. Basic attributes are
considered to be the stat level attributes. Allowing this access mask bit means
that the entity can execute \fBls\fR(1) and \fBstat\fR(2).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_attributes (\fBA\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to change the times associated with a file or directory to an
arbitrary value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdelete (\fBd\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to delete the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdelete_child (\fBD\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to delete a file within a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBread_acl (\fBc\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to read the ACL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_acl (\fBC\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to write the ACL or the ability to execute \fBchmod\fR(1) or
\fBsetfacl\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBwrite_owner (\fBo\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to change the owner or the ability to execute \fBchown\fR(1) or
\fBchgrp\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsynchronize (\fBs\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Permission to access a file locally at the server with synchronous reads and
writes. Currently, this permission is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following inheritance flags are supported by NFSv4 ACLs:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBfile_inherit (\fBf\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Inherit to all newly created files in a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdir_inherit (\fBd\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Inherit to all newly created directories in a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinherit_only (\fBi\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Placed on a directory, but does not apply to the directory itself, only to
newly created files and directories. This flag requires file_inherit
and/or dir_inherit to indicate what to inherit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBno_propagate (\fBn\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Placed on directories and indicates that ACL entries should only be inherited
one level of the tree. This flag requires file_inherit and/or dir_inherit to
indicate what to inherit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBsuccessful_access (\fBS\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Indicates whether an alarm or audit record should be initiated upon successful
accesses. Used with audit/alarm ACE types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBfailed_access (\fBF\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Indicates whether an alarm or audit record should be initiated when access
fails. Used with audit/alarm ACE types.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinherited (\fBI\fR)\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
ACE was inherited.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
No permission granted.
.RE

.sp
.LP
An NFSv4 ACL is expressed using the following syntax:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIacl_entry\fR[,\fIacl_entry\fR]...

    owner@:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    group@:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    everyone@:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    user:<username>:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    usersid:<sid string>:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    group:<groupname>:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    groupsid:<sid string>:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
    sid:<sid string>:<perms>[:inheritance flags]:<allow|deny>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBowner@\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
File owner
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBgroup@\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Group owner
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBuser\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Permissions for a specific user
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBgroup\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Permissions for a specific group
.RE

.sp
.LP
Permission and inheritance flags are separated by a \fB/\fR character.
.sp
.LP
ACL specification examples:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
user:fred:read_data/write_data/read_attributes:file_inherit:allow
owner@:read_data:allow,group@:read_data:allow,user:tom:read_data:deny
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Using the compact ACL format, permissions are specified by using 14 unique
letters to indicate permissions.
.sp
.LP
Using the positional ACL format, permissions are specified as positional
arguments similar to the \fBls -V\fR format. The hyphen (\fB-\fR), which
indicates that no permission is granted at that position, can be omitted and
only the required letters have to be specified.
.sp
.LP
The letters above are listed in the order they would be specified in positional
notation.
.sp
.LP
With these letters you can specify permissions in the following equivalent
ways.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
user:fred:rw------R------:file_inherit:allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Or you can remove the \fB-\fR and scrunch it together.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
user:fred:rwR:file_inherit:allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The inheritance flags can also be specified in a more compact manner, as
follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
user:fred:rwR:f:allow
user:fred:rwR:f------:allow
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SS "Shell-level Solaris \fBAPI\fR"
.LP
The Solaris command interface supports the manipulation of ACLs. The following
Solaris utilities accommodate both ACL models:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBchmod\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The \fBchmod\fR utility has been enhanced to allow for the setting and deleting
of ACLs. This is achieved by extending the symbolic-mode argument to support
ACL manipulation. See \fBchmod\fR(1) for details.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcompress\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
When a file is compressed any ACL associated with the original file is
preserved with the compressed file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
By default, \fBcp\fR ignores ACLs, unless the \fB-p\fR option is specified.
When \fB-p\fR is specified the owner and group id, permission modes,
modification and access times, ACLs, and extended attributes if applicable are
preserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcpio\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
ACLs are preserved when the \fB-P\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfind\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Find locates files with ACLs when the \fB-acl\fR flag is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBls\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
By default \fBls\fR does not display ACL information. When the \fB-v\fR option
is specified, a file's ACL is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmv\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
When a file is moved, all attributes are carried along with the renamed file.
When a file is moved across a file system boundary, the ACLs are replicated. If
the ACL information cannot be replicated, the move fails and the source file is
not removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpack\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
When a file is packed, any ACL associated with the original file is preserved
with the packed file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrcp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
\fBrcp\fR has been enhanced to support copying. A file's ACL is only preserved
when the remote host supports ACLs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtar\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
ACLs are preserved when the \fB-p\fR option is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunpack\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
When a file with an ACL is unpacked, the unpacked file retains the ACL
information.
.RE

.SS "Application-level \fBAPI\fR"
.LP
The primary interfaces required to access file system ACLs at the programmatic
level are the \fBacl_get()\fR and \fBacl_set()\fR functions. These functions
support both POSIX draft ACLs and NFSv4 ACLs.
.SS "Retrieving a file's \fBACL\fR"
.in +2
.nf
int acl_get(const char *path, int flag, acl_t **aclp);
int facl_get(int fd, int flag, acl_t **aclp);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_get\fR(3SEC) and \fBfacl_get\fR(3SEC) functions retrieves an ACL on
a file whose name is given by path or referenced by the open file descriptor
fd. The flag argument specifies whether a trivial ACL should be retrieved. When
the flag argument equals \fBACL_NO_TRIVIAL\fR then only ACLs that are not
trivial are retrieved. The ACL is returned in the \fBaclp\fR argument.
.SS "Freeing \fBACL\fR structure"
.in +2
.nf
void acl_free(acl_t *aclp)s;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_free()\fR function frees up memory allocated for the argument
\fBaclp;\fR.
.SS "Setting an \fBACL\fR on a file"
.in +2
.nf
int acl_set(const char *path, acl_t *aclp);
int facl_set(int fd, acl_t *aclp);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_set\fR(3SEC) and \fBfacl_get\fR(3SEC) functions are used for setting
an ACL on a file whose name is given by path or referenced by the open file
descriptor \fBfd\fR. The \fBaclp\fR argument specifies the ACL to set. The
\fBacl_set\fR(3SEC) translates an POSIX-draft ACL into a NFSv4 ACL when the
target file systems supports NFSv4 ACLs. No translation is performed when
trying to set an NFSv4 ACL on a POSIX-draft ACL supported file system.
.SS "Determining an \fBACL\fR's trivialness"
.in +2
.nf
int acl_trivial(const char *path);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_trivial()\fR function is used to determine whether a file has a
trivial ACL.
.SS "Removing all \fBACL\fRs from a file"
.in +2
.nf
int acl_strip(const char *path, uid_t uid, gid_t gid, mode_t mode);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_strip()\fR function removes all ACLs from a file and replaces them
with a trivial ACL based off of the passed in argument mode. After replacing
the ACL the owner and group of the file are set to the values specified in the
uid and gid parameters.
.SS "Converting \fBACL\fRs to/from external representation"
.in +2
.nf
int acl_fromtext(const char *path, acl_t **aclp);
char *acl_totext(acl_t *aclp, int flags);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_totext()\fR function converts an internal ACL representation pointed
to by aclp into an external representation. See \fBDESCRIPTION\fR for details
about external representation.
.sp
.LP
The \fBacl_fromtext()\fR functions converts and external representation into an
internal representation. See \fBDESCRIPTION\fR for details about external
representation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
The following examples demonstrate how the API can be used to perform basic
operations on ACLs.
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRetrieving and Setting an ACL
.sp
.LP
Use the following to retrieve an ACL and set it on another file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
error = acl_get("file", ACL_NO_TRIVIAL, &aclp);

if (error == 0 && aclp != NULL) {
.in +8
error = acl_set("file2", aclp);
acl_free(aclp);
.in -8
}
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRRetrieving and Setting Any ACLs
.sp
.LP
Use the following to retrieve any ACL, including trivial ACLs, and set it on
another file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
error = acl_get("file3", 0, &aclp);
if (error == 0) {
.in +8
error = acl_set("file4", aclp);
acl_free(aclp);
.in -8
}
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRDetermining if a File has a Trivial ACL
.sp
.LP
Use the following to determine if a file has a trivial ACL:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
char *file = "file5";
istrivial = acl_trivial(file);

if (istrivial == 0)
.in +8
printf("file %s has a trivial ACL\en", file);
.in -8
else
.in +8
printf("file %s has a NON-trivial ACL\en", file);
.in -8
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRRemoving all ACLs from a File
.sp
.LP
Use the following to remove all ACLs from a file, and set a new mode, owner,
and group:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
error = acl_strip("file", 10, 100, 0644);
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBchgrp\fR(1), \fBchmod\fR(1), \fBchown\fR(1), \fBcp\fR(1), \fBcpio\fR(1),
\fBfind\fR(1), \fBls\fR(1), \fBmv\fR(1), \fBtar\fR(1), \fBsetfacl\fR(1),
\fBchmod\fR(2), \fBacl\fR(2), \fBstat\fR(2), \fBacl_get\fR(3SEC),
\fBaclsort\fR(3SEC), \fBacl_fromtext\fR(3SEC), \fBacl_free\fR(3SEC),
\fBacl_strip\fR(3SEC), \fBacl_trivial\fR(3SEC)
