'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUDIT_BINFILE 5 "Jun 24, 2009"
.SH NAME
audit_binfile \- generation of Solaris audit logs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/lib/security/audit_binfile.so\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudit_binfile\fR plugin module for Solaris audit,
\fB/usr/lib/security/audit_binfile.so\fR, writes binary audit data to files as
configured in \fBaudit_control\fR(4); it is the default plugin for the Solaris
audit daemon \fBauditd\fR(1M). Its output is described by \fBaudit.log\fR(4).
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudit_binfile\fR plugin is loaded by \fBauditd\fR if \fBaudit_control\fR
contains one or more lines defining audit directories by means of the
\fBdir:\fR specification or if \fBaudit_control\fR has a \fBplugin:\fR
specification of \fBname=audit_binfile.so\fR.
.SH OBJECT ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBp_dir\fR and \fBp_minfree\fR attributes are equivalent to the \fBdir:\fR
and \fBminfree:\fR lines described in \fBaudit_control\fR. If both the
\fBdir:\fR line and the \fBp_dir\fR attribute are used, the plugin combines all
directories into a single list with those specified by means of \fBdir:\fR at
the front of the list. If both the \fBminfree\fR and the \fBp_minfree\fR
attributes are given, the \fBp_minfree\fR value is used.
.sp
.LP
The \fBp_fsize\fR attribute defines the maximum size in bytes that an audit
file can become before it is automatically closed and a new audit file opened.
This is equivalent to an administrator issuing an \fBaudit\fR \fB-n\fR command
when the audit file contains the specified number of bytes. The default size is
zero (0), which allows the file to grow without bound. The value specified must
be within the range of [512,000, 2,147,483,647].
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
The following directives cause \fBaudit_binfile.so\fR to be loaded, specify the
directories for writing audit logs, and specify the percentage of required free
space per directory.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
flags: lo,ad,-fm
naflags: lo,ad
plugin: name=audit_binfile.so;\e
p_minfree=20;\e
p_dir=/var/audit/jedgar/eggplant,\e
/var/audit/jedgar.aux/eggplant,\e
/var/audit/global/eggplant
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	MT-Safe
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBauditd\fR(1M), \fBaudit_control\fR(4), \fBsyslog.conf\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Security Services\fR
