.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2021 John H. Baldwin <jhb@FreeBSD.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 2023 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\" Portions Copyright 2025 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd December 1, 2025
.Dt BHYVE_CONFIG 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bhyve_config
.Nd "bhyve configuration variables"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Xr bhyve 8
uses a hierarchical tree of configuration variables to describe global and
per-device settings.
Internal nodes in this tree do not have a value,
only leaf nodes have values.
This manual describes the configuration variables understood by
.Xr bhyve 8 .
If additional variables are defined,
.Xr bhyve 8
will ignore them and will not emit errors for unknown variables.
However, these additional variables can be referenced by other
variables as described below.
.Sh VARIABLE VALUES
Configuration variable values are stored as strings.
A configuration variable value may refer to one or more other
configuration values by name.
Instances of the pattern
.Sq % Ns Pq Ar var
are replaced by the value of the configuration variable
.Va var .
To avoid unwanted expansion,
.Sq %
characters can be escaped by a leading
.Sq % .
For example,
if a configuration variable
.Va disk
uses the value
.Pa /dev/zvol/bhyve/%(name) ,
then the final value of the
.Va disk
variable will be set to the path of a ZFS volume whose name matches
the name of the virtual machine on the pool
.Pa bhyve .
.Pp
Some configuration variables may be interpreted as a boolean value.
For those variables the following case-insensitive values may be used to
indicate true:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
true
.It
on
.It
yes
.It
1
.El
.Pp
The following values may be used to indicate false:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
false
.It
off
.It
no
.It
0
.El
.Pp
Some configuration variables may be interpreted as an integer.
For those variables,
any syntax supported by
.Xr strtoul 3C
may be used.
.Sh GLOBAL SETTINGS
.Ss Architecture Neutral Settings
.Bl -column "memory.guest_in_core" "integer" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va name Ta string Ta Ta
The name of the VM.
.It Va cpus Ta integer Ta 1 Ta
The total number of virtual CPUs.
.It Va cores Ta integer Ta 1 Ta
The number of virtual cores in each virtual socket.
.It Va threads Ta integer Ta 1 Ta
The number of virtual CPUs in each virtual core.
.It Va sockets Ta integer Ta 1 Ta
The number of virtual sockets.
.It Va memory.size Ta string Ta 256M Ta
Guest physical memory size.
The size argument may be suffixed with one of K, M, G or T (either upper
or lower case) to indicate a multiple of kibibytes, mebibytes, gibibytes,
or tebibytes.
If no suffix is given, the value is assumed to be in mebibytes.
.It Va memory.wired Ta bool Ta false Ta
Wire guest memory.
.It Va bootrom Ta path Ta Ta
Path to a boot ROM.
During initialization of the guest, the contents of this file are copied into
the guest's memory.
If a boot ROM is present, a firmware interface device is
also enabled for use by the boot ROM.
.It Va bootvars Ta path Ta Ta
Path to boot VARS.
The contents of this file are copied beneath the boot ROM.
Firmware can write to it to save variables.
Variables will be persistent across guest reboots.
.It Va acpi_tables Ta bool Ta false Ta
Generate ACPI tables.
.It Va acpi_tables_in_memory Ta bool Ta true Ta
.Xr bhyve 8
always exposes ACPI tables by FwCfg.
For backward compatibility bhyve copies them into the guest memory as well.
This can cause problems if the guest uses the in-memory version, since certain
advanced features, such as TPM emulation, are exposed only via FwCfg.
Therefore, it is recommended to set this flag to false when running Windows
guests.
.It Va destroy_on_poweroff Ta bool Ta false Ta
Destroy the VM on guest-initiated power-off.
.It Va gdb.address Ta string Ta localhost Ta
Hostname, IP address, or IPv6 address for the debug server.
.It Va gdb.port Ta integer Ta 0 Ta
TCP port number for the debug server.
If this is set to a non-zero value, a debug server
will listen for connections on this port.
.It Va gdb.wait Ta bool Ta false Ta
If the debug server is enabled, wait for a debugger to connect
before starting the guest.
.It Va keyboard.layout Ta string Ta Ta
Specify the keyboard layout name with the file name in
.Pa /usr/share/bhyve/kbdlayout .
This value only works when loaded with UEFI mode for VNC, and when a VNC client
that doesn't support the QEMU Extended Key Event Message us used.
.It Va pci.enable_bars Ta bool Ta Ta
Enable and map PCI BARs before executing any guest code.
This setting is true by default but can be disabled to work around problems
with guests that remap BARs themselves
.Pq e.g. u-boot .
.It Va rtc.use_localtime Ta bool Ta true Ta
The real time clock uses the local time of the host.
If this is set to false, the real time clock uses UTC.
.It Va uuid Ta string Ta Ta
The universally unique identifier (UUID) to use in the guest's
System Management BIOS System Information structure.
If an explicit value is not set, a valid UUID is generated from
the host's hostname and the VM name.
.It Va virtio.msix Ta bool Ta true Ta
Use MSI-X interrupts for PCI VirtIO devices.
If set to false, MSI interrupts are used instead.
.It Va virtio.legacy Ta bool Ta true Ta
Enable legacy virtio support.
This causes modern-capable virtio devices to be presented as
.Dq transitional
devices that support both the VirtIO legacy and modern interfaces.
If this is set to false then only the modern interface will
be presented for these devices.
.It Va virtio.modern Ta bool Ta true Ta
Enable modern virtio support.
This causes modern-capable virtio devices to be presented as
.Dq transitional
devices that support both the VirtIO legacy and modern interfaces.
If this is set to false then only the legacy interface will
be presented for these devices.
.It Va config.dump Ta bool Ta false Ta
If this value is set to true then, after parsing command line options,
.Xr bhyve 8
will write all of its configuration variables to
.Dv stdout
and exit.
No VM will be started.
.It Va privileges.debug Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable debug messages relating to privilege management.
These messages are sent to
.Dv stdout .
.It Va rfb.debug Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable debug messages relating to the RFB
.Pq VNC
server.
.It Va viona.debug Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable debug messages relating to the accelerated virtio network device.
These messages are sent to
.Dv stdout .
.It Va virtio.net.debug Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable debug messages relating to the virtio network device.
These messages are sent to
.Dv stdout .
.It Va xhci.debug Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable debug messages relating to the emulated XHCI
.Pq USB
controller.
These messages are sent to
.Dv stderr .
.It Va bios.vendor Ta string Ta BHYVE Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va bios.version Ta string Ta 14.0 Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va bios.release_date Ta string Ta 10/17/2021 Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va system.family_name Ta string Ta Virtual Machine Ta
Family the computer belongs to.
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va system.manufacturer Ta string Ta illumos Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va system.product_name Ta string Ta BHYVE Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va system.serial_number Ta string Ta None Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va system.sku Ta string Ta None Ta
Stock keeping unit of the computer.
It's also called product ID or purchase order number.
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va system.version Ta string Ta 1.0 Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va board.manufacturer Ta string Ta illumos Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va board.product_name Ta string Ta BHYVE Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va board.version Ta string Ta 1.0 Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va board.serial_number Ta string Ta None Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va board.asset_tag Ta string Ta None Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va board.location Ta string Ta None Ta
Describes the board's location within the chassis.
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va chassis.manufacturer Ta string Ta illumos Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va chassis.version Ta string Ta 1.0 Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va chassis.serial_number Ta string Ta None Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va chassis.asset_tag Ta string Ta None Ta
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va chassis.sku Ta string Ta None Ta
Stock keeping unit of the chassis.
It's also called product ID or purchase order number.
This value is used for the guest's System Management BIOS System Information
structure.
.It Va smbios.family Ta string Ta Virtual Machine Ta
Legacy alias for
.Va system.family_name ,
do not use in new configurations.
.It Va smbios.manufacturer Ta string Ta illumos Ta
Legacy alias for
.Va system.manufacturer ,
do not use in new configurations.
.It Va smbios.product Ta string Ta BHYVE Ta
Legacy alias for
.Va system.product_name ,
do not use in new configurations.
.It Va smbios.serial Ta string Ta None Ta
Legacy alias for
.Va system.serial_number ,
do not use in new configurations.
.It Va smbios.sku Ta string Ta None Ta
Legacy alias for
.Va system.sku ,
do not use in new configurations.
.It Va smbios.version Ta string Ta 1.0 Ta
Legacy alias for
.Va system.version ,
do not use in new configurations.
.El
.Ss x86-Specific Settings
.Bl -column "x86.vmexit_on_pause" "integer" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va x86.mptable Ta bool Ta true Ta
Generate an MPTable.
.It Va x86.x2apic Ta bool Ta false Ta
Configure guest's local APICs in x2APIC mode.
.It Va x86.strictio Ta bool Ta false Ta
Exit if a guest accesses an I/O port that is not emulated.
By default, writes are ignored and reads return all bits set.
.It Va x86.strictmsr Ta bool Ta true Ta
Inject a general protection fault if a guest accesses a Model Specific
Register (MSR) that is not emulated.
If this is false, writes are ignored and reads return zero.
.It Va x86.vmexit_on_hlt Ta bool Ta false Ta
Force a VM exit when a guest CPU executes the
.Dv HLT
instruction.
This allows idle guest CPUs to yield the host CPU.
.It Va x86.vmexit_on_pause Ta bool Ta false Ta
Force a VM exit when a guest CPU executes the
.Dv PAUSE
instruction.
.El
.Sh DEVICE SETTINGS
Device settings are stored under a device node.
The device node's name is set by the parent bus of the device.
.Ss PCI Device Settings
PCI devices are described by a device node named
.Dq pci . Ns Ar bus . Ns Ar slot . Ns Ar function
where each of
.Ar bus ,
.Ar slot ,
and
.Ar function
are formatted as decimal values with no padding.
All PCI device nodes must contain a configuration variable named
.Dq device
which specifies the device model to use.
The following PCI device models are supported:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Li hostbridge
Provide a simple PCI-Host bridge device.
This is usually configured at pci0:0:0 and is required by most guest
operating systems.
.It Li ahci
AHCI storage controller.
.It Li e1000
Intel e82545 network interface.
.It Li fbuf
VGA framebuffer device attached to VNC server.
.It Li lpc
LPC PCI-ISA bridge with COM1-COM4 16550 serial ports,
a boot ROM, and, optionally, a TPM module, a fwcfg type and a debug/test device.
This device must be configured on bus 0.
.It Li nvme
NVM Express (NVMe) controller.
.It Li passthru
PCI pass-through device.
.It Li uart
PCI 16550 serial device.
.It Li virtio-9p
VirtIO 9p (VirtFS) interface.
.It Li virtio-blk
VirtIO block storage interface.
.It Li virtio-console
VirtIO console interface.
.It Li virtio-net-viona
Accelerated VirtIO network interface.
.It Li net-viona
Legacy VirtIO network interface.
.It Li virtio-rnd
VirtIO random number generator interface.
.It Li xhci
Extensible Host Controller Interface (XHCI) USB controller.
.El
.Ss USB Device Settings
USB controller devices contain zero or more child USB devices
attached to slots.
Each USB device stores its settings in a node named
.Dq slot. Ns Va N
under the controller's device node.
.Va N
is the number of the slot to which the USB device is attached.
Note that USB slot numbers begin at 1.
All USB device nodes must contain a configuration variable named
.Dq device
which specifies the device model to use.
The following USB device models are supported:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Li tablet
A USB tablet device which provides precise cursor synchronization
when using VNC.
.El
.Ss Block Device Settings
Block devices use the following settings to configure their backing store.
These settings are stored in the configuration node of the respective device.
.Bl -column "sectorsize" "logical[/physical]" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It path Ta string Ta Ta
The path of the file or disk device to use as the backing store.
.It nocache Ta bool Ta false Ta
Disable caching on the backing file by opening the backing file with
.Dv O_DIRECT .
.It nodelete Ta bool Ta false Ta
Disable emulation of guest trim requests via
.Dv DIOCGDELETE
requests.
.It sync Ta bool Ta false Ta
Write changes to the backing file with synchronous writes.
.It direct Ta bool Ta false Ta
An alias for
.Va sync .
.It ro Ta bool Ta false Ta
Disable writes to the backing file.
.It sectorsize Ta Va logical Ns Op / Ns Va physical Ta Ta
Specify the logical and physical sector size of the emulated disk.
If the physical size is not specified, it is set to be equal to the logical
size.
.El
.Ss virtio-net-viona Network Backend Settings
Viona network devices use the following settings to configure their backend.
.Bl -column "feature_flags" "string" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It vnic Ta string Ta Ta
The VNIC to use for the network connection.
.It feature_mask Ta integer Ta 0 Ta
Specify a mask to apply to the virtio features advertised to the guest.
.It vqsize Ta integer Ta 1024 Ta
Specify the size of each TX and RX ring.
This value must be a power of 2 and in the range [2, 32768].
.It qpair Ta integer Ta 8 Ta
Specify the maximum number of queue pairs offered to the guest.
The value must be in the range [1, 256] and defaults to 8.
Each queue pair consists of one transmit
.Pq TX
and one receive
.Pq RX
queue.
Note that most guests will allocate memory for all permitted queues, regardless
of whether they are actively used.
The default of 8 queue pairs results in 8 RX and 8 TX queues for network packet
transfer, plus one control queue.
.El
.Pp
Viona network devices have the ability to lend out their TX buffers, which
can occasionally cause issues if they are not returned.
This will result in the guest not being able to send any network packets,
including TCP ACKs, resulting in the guest becoming completely unreachable.
The default has changed to now always copy TX buffers.
A temporary tunable has been added
.Pq which will be removed when this has been properly addressed
to restore the ability for the driver to loan out TX buffers, which is enabled
by setting the variable
.Sy viona:viona_default_tx_copy
to 0 in
.Xr system 5 .
.Ss Other Network Backend Settings
Other network devices use the following settings to configure their backend.
.Bl -column "feature_flags" "string" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It vnic Ta string Ta Ta
The VNIC to use for the network connection.
.It promiscphys Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable promiscuous mode at the physical level.
.It promiscsap Ta bool Ta true Ta
Enable promiscuous mode at the SAP level.
.It promiscmulti Ta bool Ta true Ta
Enable promiscuous mode for all multicast addresses.
.It promiscrxonly Ta bool Ta true Ta
The selected promiscuous modes are only enabled for received traffic.
.El
.Ss UART Device Settings
.Bl -column "Name" "Format" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va path Ta path Ta Ta
Backend device for the serial port.
Either the pathname of a character device or
.Dq stdio
to use standard input and output of the
.Xr bhyve 8
process.
.El
.Ss Host Bridge Settings
Host Bridge devices use the following settings.
When configuring parameters, either the
.Va model
by itself, or both of
.Va vendor
and
.Va devid
must be specified.
The vendor and device IDs can be specified using the legacy
.Va vendor
and
.Va devid ,
or via the new
.Va pcireg.vendor
and
.Va pcireg.device
properties.
.Bl -column "pcireg.*" "integer" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va model Ta string Ta netapp Ta
Specify a hostbridge model to emulate.
Valid model strings, and their associated vendor and device IDs are:
.Sy amd Pq 0x1022/0x7432 ,
.Sy netapp Pq 0x1275/0x1275 ,
.Sy i440fx Pq 0x8086/0x1237
and
.Sy q35 Pq 0x8086/0x29b0 .
.It Va vendor Ta integer Ta 0x1275 Ta
PCI vendor ID.
.It Va devid Ta integer Ta 0x1275 Ta
PCI device ID.
.It Va pcireg.* Ta integer Ta Ta
Values of PCI register.
.Bl -column "device" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Type Ta Sy Default
.It Va vendor Ta integer Ta 0x1275
.It Va device Ta integer Ta 0x1275
.El
.El
.Ss AHCI Controller Settings
AHCI controller devices contain zero or more ports each of which
provides a storage device.
Each port stores its settings in a node named
.Dq port. Ns Va N
under the controller's device node.
The
.Va N
values are formatted as successive decimal values starting with 0.
In addition to the block device settings described above, each
port supports the following settings:
.Bl -column "model" "integer" "generated"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va type Ta string Ta Ta
The type of storage device to emulate.
Must be set to either
.Dq cd
or
.Dq hd .
.It Va nmrr Ta integer Ta 0 Ta
Nominal Media Rotation Rate, also known as RPM.
A value 1 of indicates a device with no rate such as a Solid State Disk.
.It Va ser Ta string Ta generated Ta
Serial number of up to twenty characters.
A default serial number is generated using a hash of the backing
store's pathname.
.It Va rev Ta string Ta 001 Ta
Revision number of up to eight characters.
.It Va model Ta string Ta Ta
Model number of up to forty characters.
Separate default model strings are used for
.Dq cd
and
.Dq hd
device types.
.El
.Ss Frame Buffer Settings
.Bl -column "password" "[IP:]port" "127.0.0.1:5900"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va wait Ta bool Ta false Ta
Wait for a remote connection before starting the VM.
.It Va rfb Ta Oo Ar IP Ns \&: Oc Ns Ar port Ta 127.0.0.1:5900 Ta
TCP address to listen on for remote connections.
The IP address must be given as a numeric address.
IPv6 addresses must be enclosed in square brackets and
support scoped identifiers as described in
.Xr getaddrinfo 3SOCKET .
A bare port number may be given in which case the IPv4
localhost address is used.
.It Va unix Ta string Ta Ta
UNIX socket to listen on for VNC connections.
.It Va vga Ta string Ta io Ta
VGA configuration.
More details are provided in
.Xr bhyve 8 .
.It Va w Ta integer Ta 1024 Ta
Frame buffer width in pixels.
.It Va h Ta integer Ta 768 Ta
Frame buffer height in pixels.
.It Va password Ta string Ta Ta
Password to use for VNC authentication.
This type of authentication is known to be cryptographically weak and is not
intended for use on untrusted networks.
.El
.Ss LPC Device Settings
The LPC bridge stores its configuration under a top-level
.Va lpc
node rather than under the PCI LPC device's node.
The following nodes are available under
.Va lpc :
.Bl -column "pc-testdev" "Format" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va com1 Ta node Ta Ta
Settings for the COM1 serial port device.
.It Va com2 Ta node Ta Ta
Settings for the COM2 serial port device.
.It Va com3 Ta node Ta Ta
Settings for the COM3 serial port device.
.It Va com4 Ta node Ta Ta
Settings for the COM4 serial port device.
.It Va fwcfg Ta string Ta bhyve Ta
The fwcfg type to be used.
Supported values are
.Dq bhyve
for fwctl and
.Dq qemu
for fwcfg.
.It Va pc-testdev Ta bool Ta false Ta
Enable the PC debug/test device.
.It Va pcireg.* Ta integer Ta Ta
Values of PCI register.
This value is required for the Intel GOP driver to work properly.
.Bl -column "subvendor" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Default
.It Va vendor Ta 0x8086
.It Va device Ta 0x7000
.It Va revid Ta 0
.It Va subvendor Ta 0
.It Va subdevice Ta 0
.El
.El
.Ss TPM Device Settings
The TPM device stores its configuration under a top-level
.Va tpm
node rather than under the LPC TPM device's node.
Only one TPM device is supported.
The following nodes are available under
.Va tpm :
.Bl -column "tpm.version" "Format" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va tpm.path Ta string Ta Ta
Path to the TPM backend.
Depending on the
.Va tpm.type ,
this is either the host TPM device, typically
.Pa /dev/tpm ,
or any UNIX domain socket on which a
.Sy swtpm
process is listening.
.It Va tpm.type Ta string Ta Ta
Type of the TPM device passed to the guest.
This can be either
.Dq passthru
to use the host TPM devices, or
.Dq swtpm
to connect to a running
.Sy swtpm
process.
.It Va tpm.version Ta string Ta 2.0 Ta
Version of the TPM device according to the TCG specification.
Currently, only version 2.0 is supported.
.El
.Ss NVMe Controller Settings
Each NVMe controller supports a single storage device.
The device can be backed either by a memory disk described by the
.Va ram
variable, or a block device using the block device settings described above.
In addition, each controller supports the following settings:
.Bl -column "ioslots" "Format" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va maxq Ta integer Ta 16 Ta
Maximum number of I/O submission and completion queue pairs.
.It Va qsz Ta integer Ta 2058 Ta
Number of elements in each I/O queue.
.It Va ioslots Ta integer Ta 8 Ta
Maximum number of concurrent I/O requests.
.It Va sectsz Ta integer Ta Ta
Sector size.
Can be one of 512, 4096, or 8192.
Devices backed by a memory disk use 4096 as the default.
Devices backed by a block device use the block device's sector size
as the default.
.It Va ser Ta string Ta Ta
Serial number of up to twenty characters.
A default serial number is generated using a hash of the device's PCI address.
.It Va eui64 Ta integer Ta Ta
IEEE Extended Unique Identifier.
If an EUI is not provided, a default is generated using a checksum of the
device's PCI address.
.It Va dsm Ta string Ta auto Ta
Whether or not to advertise Dataset Management (DSM) support.
One of
.Dq auto ,
.Dq enable ,
or
.Dq disable .
The
.Dq auto
setting only advertises support if the backing store supports
resource freeing, for example via TRIM.
.It Va ram Ta integer Ta Ta
If set, allocate a memory disk as the backing store.
The value of this variable is the size of the memory disk in megabytes.
.El
.Ss PCI Passthrough Settings
.Bl -column "Name" "integer" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va path Ta string Ta Ta
Path to a PCI passthrough device in the form
.Pa /dev/ppt Ns Ar N
where
.Ar N
is the device number.
.It Va rom Ta path Ta Ta
ROM file of the device which will be executed by OVMF to initialise the device.
.El
.Ss VirtIO 9p Settings
Each VirtIO 9p device exposes a single filesystem from a host path.
.Bl -column "sharename" "Format" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va sharename Ta string Ta Ta
The share name exposed to the guest.
.It Va path Ta path Ta Ta
The path of a directory on the host to export to the guest.
.It Va ro Ta bool Ta false Ta
If true, the guest filesystem is read-only.
.El
.Ss VirtIO Block Device Settings
In addition to the block device settings described above, each
VirtIO block device supports the following settings:
.Bl -column "model" "integer" "generated"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va ser Ta string Ta generated Ta
Serial number of up to twenty characters.
A default serial number is generated using a hash of the backing
store's pathname.
.El
.Ss VirtIO Console Device Settings
Each VirtIO Console device contains one or more console ports.
Each port stores its settings in a node named
.Dq port. Ns Va N
under the controller's device node.
The
.Va N
values are formatted as successive decimal values starting with 0.
Each port supports the following settings:
.Bl -column "Name" "Format" "Default"
.It Sy Name Ta Sy Format Ta Sy Default Ta Sy Description
.It Va name Ta string Ta Ta
The name of the port exposed to the guest.
.It Va path Ta path Ta Ta
The path of a UNIX domain socket providing the host connection for the port.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr strtoul 3C ,
.Xr getaddrinfo 3SOCKET ,
.Xr bhyve 8
