.\" Copyright (c) 2011 Devin Teske
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd Apr 22, 2017
.Dt DELAY.4TH 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm delay.4th
.Nd loader debugging boot module
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The file that goes by the name of
.Nm
is a set of commands designed to add debugging capabilities to
.Xr loader 5 .
The commands of
.Nm
by themselves are not enough for most uses.
Please refer to the
examples below for the most common situations, and to
.Xr loader 5
for additional commands.
.Pp
Before using any of the commands provided in
.Nm ,
it must be included
through the command:
.Pp
.Dl include delay.4th
.Pp
This line is present in
.Pa /boot/forth/beastie.4th
file, so it is not needed (and should not be re-issued) in a normal setup.
.Pp
The commands provided by it are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width disable-module_module -compact -offset indent
.It Ic delay_execute
Executes the [string] procedure stored in the
.Ic delay_command
environment variable after
.Ic loader_delay
seconds.
.Pp
If the optional
.Ic delay_showdots
environment variable is set, a continuous series of dots is printed.
.Pp
During the duration, the user can either press Ctrl-C (or Esc) to abort or
ENTER to proceed immediately.
.El
.Pp
The environment variables that effect its behavior are:
.Bl -tag -width bootfile -offset indent
.It Va delay_command
The command to be executed by
.Ic delay_execute .
.It Va loader_delay
The duration (in seconds) to delay before executing
.Ic delay_command .
.It Va delay_showdots
If set, will cause
.Ic delay_execute
to print a continuous series of dots during the delay duration.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /boot/forth/loader.4th -compact
.It Pa /boot/zfsloader
The
.Xr zfsloader 5 .
.It Pa /boot/forth/delay.4th
.Nm
itself.
.It Pa /boot/loader.rc
.Xr loader 5
bootstrapping script.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Introducing a 5-second delay before including another file from
.Pa /boot/loader.rc :
.Pp
.Bd -literal -offset indent -compact
include /boot/forth/delay.4th
set delay_command="include /boot/forth/other.4th"
set delay_showdots
set loader_delay=5
delay_execute
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr loader.conf 4 ,
.Xr beastie.4th 5 ,
.Xr loader 5 ,
.Xr loader.4th 5
