'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DHCP_MODULES 5 "Jan 24, 2003"
.SH NAME
dhcp_modules \- data storage modules for the DHCP service
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This man page describes the characteristics of data storage modules (public
modules) for use by the Solaris Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
(\fBDHCP\fR) service.
.sp
.LP
Public modules are the part of the \fBDHCP\fR service architecture that
encapsulate the details of storing \fBDHCP\fR service data in a data storage
service. Examples of data storage services are \fBNIS+\fR, Oracle, and
\fBufs\fR file systems.
.sp
.LP
Public modules are dynamic objects which can be shipped separately from the
Solaris \fBDHCP\fR service. Once installed, a public module is visible to the
\fBDHCP\fR service, and can be selected for use by the service through the
\fBDHCP\fR service management interfaces (\fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M),
\fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M), \fBdhtadm\fR(1M), and \fBpntadm\fR(1M)).
.sp
.LP
Public modules may be provided by Sun Microsystems, Inc or by third parties.
.sp
.LP
The Solaris \fBDHCP\fR service management architecture provides a mechanism for
plugging in public module-specific administration functionality into the
\fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M) and \fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M) utilities. This functionality is in
the form of a Java Bean, which is provided by the public module vendor. This
Java Bean collects public module-specific configuration from the user (you) and
provides it to the Solaris \fBDHCP\fR service.
.sp
.LP
The Solaris \fBDHCP\fR service bundles three modules with the service, which
are described below. There are three \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4) \fBDHCP\fR service
configuration parameters pertaining to public modules: \fBRESOURCE\fR,
\fBPATH\fR, and \fBRESOURCE_CONFIG\fR. See \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4) for more
information about these parameters.
.SS "SUNWfiles"
.sp
.LP
This module stores its data in \fBASCII\fR files. Although the format is
\fBASCII\fR, hand-editing is discouraged. It is useful for \fBDHCP\fR service
environments that support several hundred to a couple thousand of clients and
lease times are a few hours or more.
.sp
.LP
This module's data may be shared between \fBDHCP\fR servers through the use of
\fBNFS\fR.
.SS "SUNWbinfiles"
.sp
.LP
This module stores its data in binary files. It is useful for \fBDHCP\fR
service environments with many networks and many thousands of clients. This
module provides an order of magnitude increase in performance and capacity over
SUNWfiles.
.sp
.LP
This module's data cannot be shared between \fBDHCP\fR servers.
.SS "SUNWnisplus"
.sp
.LP
This module stores its data within a \fBNIS+\fR domain. It is useful in
environments where \fBNIS+\fR is already deployed and facilitates sharing among
multiple \fBDHCP\fR servers. This module suports several hundred to a few
thousand clients with lease times of several hours or more.
.sp
.LP
The \fBNIS+\fR service should be hosted on a machine with ample \fBCPU\fR
power, memory, and disk space, as the load on \fBNIS+\fR is significant when it
is used to store \fBDHCP\fR data. Periodic checkpointing of the \fBNIS+\fR
service is necessary in order to roll the transaction logs and keep the
\fBNIS+\fR service operating at its highest efficiency. See \fBnisping\fR(1M)
and \fBcrontab\fR(1) for more information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcrontab\fR(1), \fBdhcpconfig\fR(1M), \fBdhcpmgr\fR(1M), \fBdhtadm\fR(1M),
\fBnisping\fR(1M), \fBpntadm\fR(1M), \fBdhcpsvc.conf\fR(4), \fBdhcp\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris DHCP Service Developer\&'s Guide\fR
