'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH INTRO 5 "Nov 17, 2008"
.SH NAME
Intro, intro \- introduction to miscellany
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Among the topics presented in this section are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBStandards\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The POSIX (IEEE) Standards and the X/Open Specifications are described on the
\fBstandards\fR page.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBEnvironments\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The user environment (\fBenviron\fR), the subset of the user environment that
depends on language and cultural conventions (\fBlocale\fR), the large file
compilation environment (\fBlfcompile\fR), and the transitional compilation
environment (\fBlfcompile64\fR) are described.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBMacros\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The macros to format Reference Manual pages (\fBman\fR and \fBmansun\fR) as
well as other text format macros (\fBme\fR, \fBmm\fR, and \fBms\fR) are
described.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCharacters\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Tables of character sets (\fBascii\fR, \fBcharmap\fR, \fBeqnchar\fR, and
\fBiconv\fR), file format notation (\fBformats\fR), file name pattern matching
(\fBfnmatch\fR), and regular expressions (\fBregex\fR and \fBregexp\fR) are
presented.
.RE

.SH ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
.sp
.LP
Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to
reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation
from The Open Group can be obtained online at
http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/\&.
.sp
.LP
The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have
given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation.
.sp
.LP
In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions of the
system documentation.
.sp
.LP
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the
SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for
Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open
Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of
any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html\&.
.sp
.LP
This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
