'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at  http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text
.\" are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical
.\" and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LOCALE 5 "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
locale \- subset of a user's environment that depends on language and cultural
conventions
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
A \fBlocale\fR is the definition of the subset of a user's environment that
depends on language and cultural conventions. It is made up from one or more
categories. Each category is identified by its name and controls specific
aspects of the behavior of components of the system. Category names correspond
to the following environment variable names:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_CTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Character classification and case conversion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_COLLATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Collation order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_TIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Date and time formats.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_NUMERIC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Numeric formatting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_MONETARY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Monetary formatting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Formats of informative and diagnostic messages and interactive responses.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The standard utilities  base their behavior on the current locale, as defined
in the ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES section for each utility. The behavior of some of
the C-language functions will also be modified based on the current locale, as
defined by the last call to \fBsetlocale\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
Locales other than those supplied by the implementation can be created by the
application via the \fBlocaledef\fR(1) utility. The value that is used to
specify a locale when using environment variables will be the string specified
as the \fIname\fR operand to  \fBlocaledef\fR when the locale was created. The
strings "C" and "POSIX" are reserved as identifiers for the POSIX locale.
.sp
.LP
Applications can select the desired locale by invoking the \fBsetlocale()\fR
function with the appropriate value. If the function is invoked with an empty
string, such as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
setlocale(LC_ALL, "");
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
the value of the corresponding environment variable is used. If the environment
variable is unset or is set to the empty string, the  \fBsetlocale()\fR
function sets the appropriate environment.
.SS "Locale Definition"
.LP
Locales can be described with the file format accepted by the \fBlocaledef\fR
utility.
.sp
.LP
The locale definition file must contain one or more locale category source
definitions, and must not contain more than one definition for the same locale
category.
.sp
.LP
A category source definition consists of a category header, a category body and
a category trailer. A category header consists of the character string naming
of the category, beginning with the characters \fBLC_\fR. The category trailer
consists of the string \fBEND\fR, followed by one or more blank characters and
the string used in the corresponding category header.
.sp
.LP
The category body consists of one or more lines of text. Each line contains an
identifier, optionally followed by one or more operands. Identifiers are either
keywords, identifying a particular locale element, or collating elements. Each
keyword within a locale must have a unique name (that is, two categories cannot
have a commonly-named keyword). No keyword can start with the characters
\fBLC_\fR. Identifiers must be separated from the operands by one or more blank
characters.
.sp
.LP
Operands must be characters, collating elements, or strings of characters.
Strings must be enclosed in double-quotes (\fB"\fR). Literal double-quotes
within strings must be preceded by the <\fIescape character\fR>, as described
below. When a keyword is followed by more than one operand, the operands must
be separated by semicolons (\fB;\fR). Blank characters are allowed both before
and after a semicolon.
.sp
.LP
The first category header in the file can be preceded by a line modifying the
comment character. It has the following format, starting in column 1:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"comment_char %c\en",<\fIcomment character\fR>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The comment character defaults to the number sign (\fB#\fR). Blank lines and
lines containing the <\fIcomment character\fR> in the first position are
ignored.
.sp
.LP
The first category header in the file can be preceded by a line modifying the
escape character to be used in the file. It has the following format, starting
in column 1:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"escape_char %c\en",<\fIescape character\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The escape character defaults to backslash.
.sp
.LP
A line can be continued by placing an escape character as the last character on
the line; this continuation character will be discarded from the input.
Although the implementation need not accept any one portion of a continued line
with a length exceeding \fB{LINE_MAX}\fR bytes, it places no limits on the
accumulated length of the continued line. Comment lines cannot be continued on
a subsequent line using an escaped newline character.
.sp
.LP
Individual characters, characters in strings, and collating elements must be
represented using symbolic names, as defined below. In addition, characters can
be represented using the characters themselves or as octal, hexadecimal or
decimal constants. When non-symbolic notation is used, the resultant locale
definitions will in many cases not be portable between systems. The left angle
bracket (\fB<\fR) is a reserved symbol, denoting the start of a symbolic name;
when used to represent itself it must be preceded by the escape character. The
following rules apply to character representation:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
A character can be represented via a symbolic name, enclosed within angle
brackets \fB<\fR and \fB>\fR. The symbolic name, including the angle brackets,
must exactly match a symbolic name defined in the charmap file specified via
the \fBlocaledef\fR \fB-f\fR option, and will be replaced by a character value
determined from the value associated with the symbolic name in the charmap
file. The use of a symbolic name not found in the charmap file constitutes an
error, unless the category is \fBLC_CTYPE\fR or  \fBLC_COLLATE\fR, in which
case it constitutes a warning condition (see \fBlocaledef\fR(1) for a
description of action resulting from errors and warnings). The specification of
a symbolic name in a \fBcollating-element\fR or \fBcollating-symbol\fR section
that duplicates a symbolic name in the charmap file (if present) is an error.
Use of the escape character or a right angle bracket within a symbolic name is
invalid unless the character is preceded by the escape character.
.sp
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<C>;<c-cedilla> "<M><a><y>"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
A character can be represented by the character itself, in which case the
value of the character is implementation-dependent. Within a string, the
double-quote character, the escape character and the right angle bracket
character must be escaped (preceded by the escape character) to be interpreted
as the character itself. Outside strings, the characters
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB,     ;     <     >\fR \fIescape_char\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

must be escaped to be interpreted as the character itself.
.sp
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
c       "May"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
A character can be represented as an octal constant. An octal constant is
specified as the escape character followed by two or more octal digits. Each
constant represents a byte value. Multi-byte values can be represented by
concatenated constants specified in byte order with the last constant
specifying the least significant byte of the character.
.sp
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\e143;\e347;\e143\e150    "\e115\e141\e171"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
A character can be represented as a hexadecimal constant. A hexadecimal
constant is specified as the escape character followed by an \fBx\fR followed
by two or more hexadecimal digits. Each constant represents a byte value.
Multi-byte values can be represented by concatenated constants specified in
byte order with the last constant specifying the least significant byte of the
character.
.sp
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\ex63;\exe7;\ex63\ex68    "\ex4d\ex61\ex79"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
A character can be represented as a decimal constant. A decimal constant is
specified as the escape character followed by a \fBd\fR followed by two or more
decimal digits. Each constant represents a byte value. Multi-byte values can be
represented by concatenated constants specified in byte order with the last
constant specifying the least significant byte of the character.
.sp
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\ed99;\ed231;\ed99\ed104   "\ed77\ed97\ed121"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

Only characters existing in the character set for which the locale definition
is created can be specified, whether using symbolic names, the characters
themselves, or octal, decimal or hexadecimal constants. If a charmap file is
present, only characters defined in the charmap can be specified using octal,
decimal or hexadecimal constants. Symbolic names not present in the charmap
file can be specified and will be ignored, as specified under item 1 above.
.RE
.SS "LC_CTYPE"
.LP
The  \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category defines character classification, case conversion
and other character attributes. In addition, a series of characters can be
represented by three adjacent periods representing an ellipsis symbol
(\fB\&...\fR). The ellipsis specification is interpreted as meaning that all
values between the values preceding and following it represent valid
characters. The ellipsis specification is valid only within a single encoded
character set, that is, within a group of characters of the same size. An
ellipsis is interpreted as including in the list all characters with an encoded
value higher than the encoded value of the character preceding the ellipsis and
lower than the encoded value of the character following the ellipsis.
.sp
.LP
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\ex30;...;\ex39;
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
includes in the character class all characters with encoded values between the
endpoints.
.sp
.LP
The following keywords are recognized. In the descriptions, the term
``automatically included'' means that it is not an error either to include or
omit any of the referenced characters.
.sp
.LP
The character classes \fBdigit\fR, \fBxdigit\fR, \fBlower\fR, \fBupper\fR, and
\fBspace\fR have a set of automatically included characters. These only need to
be specified if the character values (that is, encoding) differ from the
implementation default values.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBupper\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as upper-case letters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, the 26 upper-case letters are included:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.fi
.in -2
.sp

In a locale definition file, no character specified for the keywords
\fBcntrl\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBpunct\fR, or \fBspace\fR can be specified. The
upper-case letters \fBA\fR to \fBZ\fR are automatically included in this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlower\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as lower-case letters. In the POSIX locale,
the 26 lower-case letters are included:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.fi
.in -2
.sp

In a locale definition file, no character specified for the keywords
\fBcntrl\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBpunct\fR, or \fBspace\fR can be specified. The
lower-case letters \fBa\fR to \fBz\fR of the portable character set are
automatically included in this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBalpha\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as letters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, all characters in the classes \fBupper\fR and \fBlower\fR
are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, no character specified for the keywords
\fBcntrl\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBpunct\fR, or \fBspace\fR can be specified.
Characters classified as either \fBupper\fR or \fBlower\fR are automatically
included in this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdigit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define the characters to be classified as numeric digits.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, only
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
.fi
.in -2
.sp

are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, only the digits \fB0\fR, \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR,
\fB3\fR, \fB4\fR, \fB5\fR, \fB6\fR, \fB7\fR, \fB8\fR, and \fB9\fR can be
specified, and in contiguous ascending sequence by numerical value. The digits
\fB0\fR to \fB9\fR of the portable character set are automatically included in
this class.
.sp
The definition of character class \fBdigit\fR requires that only ten
characters; the ones defining digits can be specified; alternative digits (for
example, Hindi or Kanji) cannot be specified here.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBalnum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as letters and numeric digits. Only the
characters specified for the \fBalpha\fR and \fBdigit\fR keywords are
specified. Characters specified for the keywords \fBalpha\fR and \fBdigit\fR
are automatically included in this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBspace\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as white-space characters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, at a minimum, the characters  \fBSPACE\fR, \fBFORMFEED\fR,
\fBNEWLINE\fR, \fBCARRIAGE RETURN\fR, \fBTAB\fR, and  \fBVERTICAL TAB\fR are
included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, no character specified for the keywords
\fBupper\fR, \fBlower\fR, \fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBgraph\fR, or
\fBxdigit\fR can be specified. The characters \fBSPACE\fR, \fBFORMFEED\fR,
\fBNEWLINE\fR, \fBCARRIAGE RETURN\fR, \fBTAB\fR, and  \fBVERTICAL TAB\fR of the
portable character set, and any characters included in the class \fBblank\fR
are automatically included in this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcntrl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as control characters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, no characters in classes \fBalpha\fR or \fBprint\fR are
included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, no character specified for the keywords
\fBupper\fR, \fBlower\fR, \fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBpunct\fR, \fBgraph\fR,
\fBprint\fR, or \fBxdigit\fR can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpunct\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as punctuation characters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, neither the space character nor any characters in classes
\fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, or \fBcntrl\fR are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, no character specified for the keywords
\fBupper\fR, \fBlower\fR, \fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBcntrl\fR, \fBxdigit\fR
or as the space character can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgraph\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as printable characters, not including the
space character.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, all characters in classes \fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, and
\fBpunct\fR are included; no characters in class \fBcntrl\fR are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, characters specified for the keywords \fBupper\fR,
\fBlower\fR, \fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBxdigit\fR, and \fBpunct\fR are
automatically included in this class. No character specified for the keyword
\fBcntrl\fR can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprint\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as printable characters, including the space
character.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, all characters in class \fBgraph\fR are included; no
characters in class \fBcntrl\fR are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, characters specified for the keywords \fBupper\fR,
\fBlower\fR, \fBalpha\fR, \fBdigit\fR, \fBxdigit\fR, \fBpunct\fR, and the space
character are automatically included in this class. No character specified for
the keyword \fBcntrl\fR can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdigit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define the characters to be classified as hexadecimal digits.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, only:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 A B C D E F a b c d e f
.fi
.in -2
.sp

are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, only the characters defined for the class
\fBdigit\fR can be specified, in contiguous ascending sequence by numerical
value, followed by one or more sets of six characters representing the
hexadecimal digits 10 to 15 inclusive, with each set in ascending order (for
example \fBA\fR, \fBB\fR, \fBC\fR, \fBD\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBF\fR, \fBa\fR, \fBb\fR,
\fBc\fR, \fBd\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBf\fR). The digits \fB0\fR to \fB9\fR, the
upper-case letters \fBA\fR to \fBF\fR and the lower-case letters \fBa\fR to
\fBf\fR of the portable character set are automatically included in this class.
.sp
The definition of character class \fBxdigit\fR requires that the characters
included in character class \fBdigit\fR be included here also.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBblank\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as blank characters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, only the space and tab characters are included.
.sp
In a locale definition file, the characters space and tab are automatically
included in this class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcharclass\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define one or more locale-specific character class names as strings separated
by semi-colons. Each named character class can then be defined subsequently in
the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR definition. A character class name consists of at least one
and at most \fB{CHARCLASS_NAME_MAX}\fR bytes of alphanumeric characters from
the portable filename character set. The first character of a character class
name cannot be a digit. The name cannot match any of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR
keywords defined in this document.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcharclass-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define characters to be classified as belonging to the named locale-specific
character class. In the POSIX locale, the locale-specific named character
classes need not exist. If a class name is defined by a \fBcharclass\fR
keyword, but no characters are subsequently assigned to it, this is not an
error; it represents a class without any characters belonging to it. The
\fBcharclass-name\fR can be used as the \fIproperty\fR argument to the
\fBwctype\fR(3C) function, in regular expression and shell pattern-matching
bracket expressions, and by the \fBtr\fR(1) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtoupper\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define the mapping of lower-case letters to upper-case letters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, at a minimum, the 26 lower-case characters:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.fi
.in -2
.sp

are mapped to the corresponding 26 upper-case characters:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.fi
.in -2
.sp

In a locale definition file, the operand consists of character pairs, separated
by semicolons. The characters in each character pair are separated by a comma
and the pair enclosed by parentheses. The first character in each pair is the
lower-case letter, the second the corresponding upper-case letter. Only
characters specified for the keywords \fBlower\fR and \fBupper\fR can be
specified. The lower-case letters \fBa\fR to \fBz\fR, and their corresponding
upper-case letters \fBA\fR to \fBZ\fR, of the portable character set are
automatically included in this mapping, but only when the \fBtoupper\fR keyword
is omitted from the locale definition.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtolower\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Define the mapping of upper-case letters to lower-case letters.
.sp
In the POSIX locale, at a minimum, the 26 upper-case characters:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
.fi
.in -2
.sp

are mapped to the corresponding 26 lower-case characters:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z
.fi
.in -2
.sp

In a locale definition file, the operand consists of character pairs, separated
by semicolons. The characters in each character pair are separated by a comma
and the pair enclosed by parentheses. The first character in each pair is the
upper-case letter, the second the corresponding lower-case letter. Only
characters specified for the keywords \fBlower\fR and \fBupper\fR can be
specified. If the \fBtolower\fR keyword is omitted from the locale definition,
the mapping will be the reverse mapping of the one specified for \fBtoupper\fR.
.RE

.SS "LC_COLLATE"
.LP
The  \fBLC_COLLATE\fR category provides a collation sequence definition for
numerous utilities (such as \fBsort\fR(1), \fBuniq\fR(1), and so forth),
regular expression matching (see \fBregex\fR(5)), and the \fBstrcoll\fR(3C),
\fBstrxfrm\fR(3C), \fBwcscoll\fR(3C), and \fBwcsxfrm\fR(3C) functions.
.sp
.LP
A collation sequence definition defines the relative order between collating
elements (characters and multi-character collating elements) in the locale.
This order is expressed in terms of collation values, that is, by assigning
each element one or more collation values (also known as collation weights).
The following capabilities are provided:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
\fBMulti-character collating elements\fR. Specification of multi-character
collating elements (that is, sequences of two or more characters to be collated
as an entity).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fBUser-defined ordering of collating elements\fR. Each collating element is
assigned a collation value defining its order in the character (or basic)
collation sequence. This ordering is used by regular expressions and pattern
matching and, unless  collation weights are explicity specified, also as the
collation weight to be used in sorting.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
\fBMultiple weights and equivalence classes\fR. Collating elements can be
assigned one or more (up to the limit \fB{COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX}\fR \fB)\fR
collating weights for use in sorting. The first weight is hereafter referred to
as the primary weight.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
\fBOne-to-Many mapping\fR. A single character is mapped into a string of
collating elements.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
\fBEquivalence class definition\fR. Two or more collating elements have the
same collation value (primary weight).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
\fBOrdering by weights\fR. When two strings are compared to determine their
relative order, the two strings are first broken up into a series of collating
elements. The elements in each successive pair of elements are then compared
according to the relative primary weights for the elements. If equal, and more
than one weight has been assigned, the pairs of collating elements are
recompared according to the relative subsequent weights, until either a pair of
collating elements compare unequal or the weights are exhausted.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The following keywords are recognized in a collation sequence definition. They
are described in detail in the following sections.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcopy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Specify the name of an existing locale which is used as the definition of this
category. If this keyword is specified, no other keyword is specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcollating-element\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Define a collating-element symbol representing a multi-character collating
element. This keyword is optional.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcollating-symbol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Define a collating symbol for use in collation order statements. This keyword
is optional.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBorder_start\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Define collation rules. This statement is followed by one or more collation
order statements, assigning character collation values and collation weights to
collating elements.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBorder_end\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Specify the end of the collation-order statements.
.RE

.SS "collating-element \fIkeyword\fR"
.LP
In addition to the collating elements in the character set, the
\fBcollating-element\fR keyword is used to define multi-character collating
elements. The syntax is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"collating-element %s from \e"%s\e"\en",\fR<\fIcollating-symbol\fR>,<\fIstring\fR>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The <\fIcollating-symbol\fR> operand is a symbolic name, enclosed between angle
brackets (\fB<\fR and \fB>\fR), and must not duplicate any symbolic name in the
current charmap file (if any), or any other symbolic name defined in this
collation definition. The string operand is a string of two or more characters
that collates as an entity. A <\fIcollating-element\fR> defined via this
keyword is only recognized with the \fBLC_COLLATE\fR category.
.sp
.LP
Example:
.br
.in +2
\fBcollating-element\fR <\fBch\fR> from "<\fBc\fR><\fBh\fR>"
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBcollating-element\fR <\fBe-acute\fR> from "<\fBacute\fR><\fBe\fR>"
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBcollating-element\fR <\fBll\fR> from "\fBll\fR"
.in -2
.SS "collating-symbol \fIkeyword\fR"
.LP
This keyword will be used to define symbols for use in collation sequence
statements; that is, between the \fBorder_start\fR and the \fBorder_end\fR
keywords. The syntax is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"collating-symbol %s\en",\fR<\fIcollating-symbol\fR>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fB<\fR\fIcollating-symbol\fR\fB>\fR is a symbolic name, enclosed between
angle brackets (\fB<\fR and \fB>\fR), and must not duplicate any symbolic name
in the current charmap file (if any), or any other symbolic name defined in
this collation definition.
.sp
.LP
A \fBcollating-symbol\fR defined via this keyword is only recognized with the
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR category.
.sp
.LP
Example:
.br
.in +2
\fBcollating-symbol\fR <\fBUPPER_CASE\fR>
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBcollating-symbol\fR <\fBHIGH\fR>
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The \fBcollating-symbol\fR keyword defines a symbolic name that can be
associated with a relative position in the character order sequence. While such
a symbolic name does not represent any collating element, it can be used as a
weight.
.SS "order_start \fIkeyword\fR"
.LP
The \fBorder_start\fR keyword must precede collation order entries and also
defines the number of weights for this collation sequence definition and other
collation rules.
.sp
.LP
The syntax of the \fBorder_start\fR keyword is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"order_start %s;%s;...;%s\en",\fR<\fIsort-rules\fR>,<\fIsort-rules\fR>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The operands to the \fBorder_start\fR keyword are optional. If present, the
operands define rules to be applied when strings are compared. The number of
operands define how many weights each element is assigned. If no operands are
present, one \fBforward\fR operand is assumed. If present, the first operand
defines rules to be applied when comparing strings using the first (primary)
weight; the second when comparing strings using the second weight, and so on.
Operands are separated by semicolons (\fB;\fR). Each operand consists of one or
more collation directives, separated by commas (\fB,\fR). If the number of
operands exceeds the \fB{COLL_WEIGHTS_MAX}\fR limit, the utility will issue a
warning message. The following directives will be supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBforward\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies that comparison operations for the weight level proceed from start of
string towards the end of string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbackward\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies that comparison operations for the weight level proceed from end of
string towards the beginning of string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBposition\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Specifies that comparison operations for the weight level will consider the
relative position of elements in the strings not subject to \fBIGNORE.\fR The
string containing an element not subject to \fBIGNORE\fR after the fewest
collating elements subject to \fBIGNORE\fR from the start of the compare will
collate first. If both strings contain a character not subject to \fBIGNORE\fR
in the same relative position, the collating values assigned to the elements
will determine the ordering. In case of equality, subsequent characters not
subject to \fBIGNORE\fR are considered in the same manner.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The directives \fBforward\fR and \fBbackward\fR are mutually exclusive.
.sp
.LP
Example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
order_start	forward;backward
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If no operands are specified, a single \fBforward\fR operand is assumed.
.SS "Collation Order"
.LP
The \fBorder_start\fR keyword is followed by collating identifier entries. The
syntax for the collating element entries is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB"%s %s;%s;...;%s\en"\fR<\fIcollating-identifier\fR>,<\fIweight\fR>,<\fIweight\fR>\fB,...\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Each \fIcollating-identifier\fR consists of either a character described in
\fBLocale Definition\fR above,  a <\fIcollating-element\fR>, a
<\fIcollating-symbol\fR>, an ellipsis, or the special symbol \fBUNDEFINED\fR.
The order in which collating elements are specified determines the character
order sequence, such that each collating element compares less than the
elements following it. The  \fBNUL\fR character compares lower than any other
character.
.sp
.LP
A <\fIcollating-element\fR> is used to specify multi-character collating
elements, and indicates that the character sequence specified via the
<\fIcollating-element\fR> is to be collated as a unit and in the relative order
specified by its place.
.sp
.LP
A <\fIcollating-symbol\fR> is used to define a position in the relative order
for use in weights. No weights are specified with a <\fIcollating-symbol\fR>.
.sp
.LP
The ellipsis symbol specifies that a sequence of characters will collate
according to their encoded character values. It is interpreted as indicating
that all characters with a coded character set value higher than the value of
the character in the preceding line, and lower than the coded character set
value for the character in the following line, in the current coded character
set, will be placed in the character collation order between the previous and
the following character in ascending order according to their coded character
set values. An initial ellipsis is interpreted as if the preceding line
specified the NUL character, and a trailing ellipsis as if the following line
specified the highest coded character set value in the current coded character
set. An ellipsis is treated as invalid if the preceding or following lines do
not specify characters in the current coded character set. The use of the
ellipsis symbol ties the definition to a specific coded character set and may
preclude the definition from being portable between implementations.
.sp
.LP
The symbol \fBUNDEFINED\fR is interpreted as including all coded character set
values not specified explicitly or via the ellipsis symbol. Such characters are
inserted in the character collation order at the point indicated by the symbol,
and in ascending order according to their coded character set values. If no
\fBUNDEFINED\fR symbol is specified, and the current coded character set
contains characters not specified in this section, the utility will issue a
warning message and place such characters at the end of the character collation
order.
.sp
.LP
The optional operands for each collation-element are used to define the
primary, secondary, or subsequent weights for the collating element. The first
operand specifies the relative primary weight, the second the relative
secondary weight, and so on. Two or more collation-elements can be assigned the
same weight; they belong to the same \fIequivalence class\fR if they have the
same primary weight. Collation behaves as if, for each weight level, elements
subject to \fBIGNORE\fR are removed, unless the \fBposition\fR collation
directive is specified for the corresponding level with the \fBorder_start\fR
keyword. Then each successive pair of elements is compared according to the
relative weights for the elements. If the two strings compare equal, the
process is repeated for the next weight level, up to the limit
{\fBCOLL_WEIGHTS_MAX\fR}.
.sp
.LP
Weights are expressed as characters  described in \fBLocale Definition\fR
above, <\fIcollating-symbol\fR>s, <\fIcollating-element\fR>s, an ellipsis, or
the special symbol \fBIGNORE.\fR A single character, a <\fIcollating-symbol\fR>
or a <\fIcollating-element\fR> represent the relative position in the character
collating sequence of the character or symbol, rather than the character or
characters themselves. Thus, rather than assigning absolute values to weights,
a particular weight is expressed using the relative order value assigned to a
collating element based on its order in the character collation sequence.
.sp
.LP
One-to-many mapping is indicated by specifying two or more concatenated
characters or symbolic names. For example, if the character <\fBeszet\fR> is
given the string "<\fBs\fR><\fBs\fR>" as a weight, comparisons are performed as
if all occurrences of the character <\fBeszet\fR> are replaced by
<\fBs\fR><\fBs\fR> (assuming that <\fBs\fR> has the collating weight
<\fBs\fR>). If it is necessary to define <\fBeszet\fR> and <\fBs\fR><\fBs\fR>
as an equivalence class, then a collating element must be defined for the
string \fBss\fR.
.sp
.LP
All characters specified via an ellipsis will by default be assigned unique
weights, equal to the relative order of characters. Characters specified via an
explicit or implicit \fBUNDEFINED\fR special symbol will by default be assigned
the same primary weight (that is, belong to the same equivalence class). An
ellipsis symbol as a weight is interpreted to mean that each character in the
sequence has unique weights, equal to the relative order of their character in
the character collation sequence. The use of the ellipsis as a weight is
treated as an error if the collating element is neither an ellipsis nor the
special symbol \fBUNDEFINED\fR.
.sp
.LP
The special keyword \fBIGNORE\fR as a weight indicates that when strings are
compared using the weights at the level where \fBIGNORE\fR is specified, the
collating element is ignored; that is, as if the string did not contain the
collating element. In regular expressions and pattern matching, all characters
that are subject to \fBIGNORE\fR in their primary weight form an equivalence
class.
.sp
.LP
An empty operand is interpreted as the collating element itself.
.sp
.LP
For example, the order statement:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<a>	 <a>;<a>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
is equal to:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<a>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
An ellipsis can be used as an operand if the collating element was an ellipsis,
and is interpreted as the value of each character defined by the ellipsis.
.sp
.LP
The collation order as defined in this section defines the interpretation of
bracket expressions in regular expressions.
.sp
.LP
Example:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
\fBorder_start\fR	\fBforward;backward\fR
\fBUNDEFINED\fR	\fBIGNORE;IGNORE\fR
\fB<LOW>\fR	
\fB<space>\fR	\fB<LOW>;<space>\fR
\fB\&.\|.\|.\fR	\fB<LOW>;.\|.\|.\fR
\fB<a>\fR	\fB<a>;<a>\fR
\fB<a-acute>\fR	\fB<a>;<a-acute>\fR
\fB<a-grave>\fR	\fB<a>;<a-grave>\fR
\fB<A>\fR	\fB<a>;<A>\fR
\fB<A-acute>\fR	\fB<a>;<A-acute>\fR
\fB<A-grave>\fR	\fB<a>;<A-grave>\fR
\fB<ch>\fR	\fB<ch>;<ch>\fR
\fB<Ch>\fR	\fB<ch>;<Ch>\fR
\fB<s>\fR	\fB<s>;<s>\fR
\fB<eszet>\fR	\fB"<s><s>";"<eszet><eszet>"\fR
\fBorder_end\fR	
.TE

.sp
.LP
This example is interpreted as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
The \fBUNDEFINED\fR means that all characters not specified in this
definition (explicitly or via the ellipsis) are ignored for collation purposes;
for regular expression purposes they are ordered first.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
All characters between <\fBspace\fR> and <\fBa\fR> have the same primary
equivalence class and individual secondary weights based on their ordinal
encoded values.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
All characters based on the upper- or lower-case character \fBa\fR belong to
the same primary equivalence class.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
The multi-character collating element <\fBch\fR> is represented by the
collating symbol <\fBch\fR> and belongs to the same primary equivalence class
as the multi-character collating element <\fBCh\fR>.
.RE
.SS "order_end \fIkeyword\fR"
.LP
The collating order entries must be terminated with an \fBorder_end\fR keyword.
.SS "LC_MONETARY"
.LP
The  \fBLC_MONETARY\fR category defines the rules and symbols that are used to
format monetary numeric information. This information is available through the
\fBlocaleconv\fR(3C) function
.sp
.LP
The following items are defined in this category of the locale. The item names
are the keywords recognized by the \fBlocaledef\fR(1) utility when defining a
locale. They are also similar to the member names of the \fBlconv\fR structure
defined in <\fBlocale.h\fR>. The \fBlocaleconv\fR function returns
\fB{CHAR_MAX}\fR for unspecified integer items and the empty string (\fB""\fR)
for unspecified or size zero string items.
.sp
.LP
In a locale definition file the operands are strings. For some keywords, the
strings can contain only integers. Keywords that are not provided, string
values set to the empty string (\fB""\fR), or integer keywords set to \fB-1\fR,
are used to indicate that the value is not available in the locale.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_curr_symbol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The international currency symbol. The operand is a four-character string, with
the first three characters containing the alphabetic international currency
symbol in accordance with those specified in the ISO 4217 standard. The fourth
character is the character used to separate the international currency symbol
from the monetary quantity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcurrency_symbol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The string used as the local currency symbol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmon_decimal_point\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operand is a string containing the symbol that is used as the decimal
delimiter (radix character) in monetary formatted quantities.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmon_thousands_sep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operand is a string containing the symbol that is used as a separator for
groups of digits to the left of the decimal delimiter in formatted monetary
quantities.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmon_grouping\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Define the size of each group of digits in formatted monetary quantities. The
operand is a sequence of integers separated by semicolons. Each integer
specifies the number of digits in each group, with the initial integer defining
the size of the group immediately preceding the decimal delimiter, and the
following integers defining the preceding groups. If the last integer is not
\fB-1\fR, then the size of the previous group (if any) will be repeatedly used
for the remainder of the digits. If the last integer is \fB-1\fR, then no
further grouping will be performed.
.sp
The following is an example of the interpretation of the \fBmon_grouping\fR
keyword. Assuming that the value to be formatted is \fB123456789\fR and the
\fBmon_thousands_sep\fR is \fB\&'\fR, then the following table shows the
result. The third column shows the equivalent string in the ISO C standard that
would be used by the \fBlocaleconv\fR function to accommodate this grouping.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mon_grouping   Formatted Value  ISO C String

3;-1           123456'789       "\e3\e177"
3              123'456'789      "\e3"
3;2;-1         1234'56'789      "\e3\e2\e177"
3;2            12'34'56'789     "\e3\e2"
-1             1234567898       "\e177"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

In these examples, the octal value of \fB{CHAR_MAX}\fR is 177.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpositive_sign\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A string used to indicate a non-negative-valued formatted monetary quantity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnegative_sign\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A string used to indicate a negative-valued formatted monetary quantity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_frac_digits\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer representing the number of fractional digits (those to the right of
the decimal delimiter) to be written in a formatted monetary quantity using
\fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfrac_digits\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer representing the number of fractional digits (those to the right of
the decimal delimiter) to be written in a formatted monetary quantity using
\fBcurrency_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp_cs_precedes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
In an application conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to \fB1\fR
if the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR precedes the value for a monetary quantity with a
non-negative value, and set to \fB0\fR if the symbol succeeds the value.
.sp
In an application \fBnot\fR conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to
\fB1\fR if the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or \fBint_currency_symbol\fR precedes the
value for a monetary quantity with a non-negative value, and set to \fB0\fR if
the symbol succeeds the value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp_sep_by_space\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
In an application conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to \fB0\fR
if no space separates the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR from the value for a monetary
quantity with a non-negative value, set to \fB1\fR if a space separates the
symbol from the value, and set to \fB2\fR if a space separates the symbol and
the sign string, if adjacent.
.sp
In an application \fBnot\fR conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to
\fB0\fR if no space separates the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or
\fBint_curr_symbol\fR from the value for a monetary quantity with a
non-negative value, set to \fB1\fR if a space separates the symbol from the
value, and set to \fB2\fR if a space separates the symbol and the sign string,
if adjacent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn_cs_precedes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
In an application conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to \fB1\fR
if the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR precedes the value for a monetary quantity with a
negative value, and set to \fB0\fR if the symbol succeeds the value.
.sp
In an application \fBnot\fR conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to
\fB1\fR if the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or \fBint_currency_symbol\fR precedes the
value for a monetary quantity with a negative value, and set to \fB0\fR if the
symbol succeeds the value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn_sep_by_space\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
In an application conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to \fB0\fR
if no space separates the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR from the value for a monetary
quantity with a negative value, set to \fB1\fR if a space separates the symbol
from the value, and set to \fB2\fR if a space separates the symbol and the sign
string, if adjacent.
.sp
In an application \fBnot\fR conforming to the SUSv3 standard, an integer set to
\fB0\fR if no space separates the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or
\fBint_curr_symbol\fR from the value for a monetary quantity with a negative
value, set to \fB1\fR if a space separates the symbol from the value, and set
to \fB2\fR if a space separates the symbol and the sign string, if adjacent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp_sign_posn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to a value indicating the positioning of the \fBpositive_sign\fR
for a monetary quantity with a non-negative value. The following integer values
are recognized for both \fBp_sign_posn\fR and \fBn_sign_posn\fR:
.sp
In an application conforming to the SUSv3 standard:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Parentheses enclose the quantity and the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the quantity and the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string succeeds the quantity and the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string succeeds the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR.
.RE

In an application \fBnot\fR conforming to the SUSv3 standard:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Parentheses enclose the quantity and the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or
\fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the quantity and the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or
\fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string succeeds the quantity and the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or
\fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or \fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string succeeds the \fBcurrency_symbol\fR or \fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn_sign_posn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to a value indicating the positioning of the \fBnegative_sign\fR
for a negative formatted monetary quantity.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_p_cs_precedes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to \fB1\fR if the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR precedes the value for a
monetary quantity with a non-negative value, and set to \fB0\fR if the symbol
succeeds the value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_n_cs_precedes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to \fB1\fR if the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR precedes the value for a
monetary quantity with a negative value, and set to \fB0\fR if the symbol
succeeds the value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_p_sep_by_space\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to \fB0\fR if no space separates the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR from
the value for a monetary quantity with a non-negative value, set to \fB1\fR if
a space separates the symbol from the value, and set to \fB2\fR if a space
separates the symbol and the sign string, if adjacent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_n_sep_by_space\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to \fB0\fR if no space separates the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR from
the value for a monetary quantity with a negative value, set to \fB1\fR if a
space separates the symbol from the value, and set to \fB2\fR if a space
separates the symbol and the sign string, if adjacent.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_p_sign_posn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to a value indicating the positioning of the \fBpositive_sign\fR
for a positive monetary quantity formatted with the international format. The
following integer values are recognized for \fBint_p_sign_posn\fR and
\fBint_n_sign_posn\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Parentheses enclose the quantity and the \fB\fR\fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the quantity and the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the quantity and the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string precedes the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB4\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
The sign string succeeds the \fBint_curr_symbol\fR.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBint_n_sign_posn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An integer set to a value indicating the positioning of the \fBnegative_sign\fR
for a negative monetary quantity formatted with the international format.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following table shows the result of various combinations:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l l l l
l l l l l l .
		\fBp_sep_by_space\fR	
		2	1	0	
\fBp_cs_precedes\fR= 1	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 0	\fB($1.25)\fR	\fB($1.25)\fR	\fB($1.25)\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 1	\fB+$1.25\fR	\fB+$1.25\fR	\fB+$1.25\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 2	\fB$1.25+\fR	\fB$1.25+\fR	\fB$1.25+\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 3	\fB+$1.25\fR	\fB+$1.25\fR	\fB+$1.25\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 4	\fB$+1.25\fR	\fB$+1.25\fR	\fB$+1.25\fR	
\fBp_cs_precedes\fR= 0	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 0	\fB(1.25 $)\fR	\fB(1.25 $)\fR	\fB(1.25$)\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 1	\fB+1.25 $\fR	\fB+1.25 $\fR	\fB+1.25$\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 2	\fB1.25$ +\fR	\fB1.25 $+\fR	\fB1.25$+\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 3	\fB1.25+ $\fR	\fB1.25 +$\fR	\fB1.25+$\fR	
	\fBp_sign_posn\fR= 4	\fB1.25$ +\fR	\fB1.25 $+\fR	\fB1.25$+\fR	
.TE

.sp
.LP
The monetary formatting definitions for the POSIX locale follow. The code
listing depicts the \fBlocaledef\fR(1) input, the table representing the same
information with the addition of \fBlocaleconv\fR(3C) and \fBnl_langinfo\fR(3C)
formats. All values are unspecified in the POSIX locale.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LC_MONETARY
# This is the POSIX locale definition for
# the LC_MONETARY category.
#
int_curr_symbol       ""
currency_symbol       ""
mon_decimal_point     ""
mon_thousands_sep     ""
mon_grouping          -1
positive_sign         ""
negative_sign         ""
int_frac_digits       -1
frac_digits           -1
p_cs_precedes         -1
p_sep_by_space        -1
n_cs_precedes         -1
n_sep_by_space        -1
p_sign_posn           -1
n_sign_posn           -1
int_p_cs_precedes     -1
int_p_sep_by_space    -1
int_n_cs_precedes     -1
int_n_sep_by_space    -1
int_p_sign_posn       -1
int_n_sign_posn       -1
#
END LC_MONETARY
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The entry \fBn/a\fR indicates that the value is not available in the POSIX
locale.
.SS "LC_NUMERIC"
.LP
The  \fBLC_NUMERIC\fR category defines the rules and symbols that will be used
to format non-monetary numeric information. This information is available
through the \fBlocaleconv\fR(3C) function.
.sp
.LP
The following items are defined in this category of the locale. The item names
are the keywords recognized by the \fBlocaledef\fR utility when defining a
locale. They are also similar to the member names of the \fIlconv\fR structure
defined in <\fBlocale.h\fR>. The \fBlocaleconv()\fR function returns
\fB{CHAR_MAX}\fR for unspecified integer items and the empty string (\fB""\fR)
for unspecified or size zero string items.
.sp
.LP
In a locale definition file the operands are strings. For some keywords, the
strings only can contain integers. Keywords that are not provided, string
values set to the empty string (\fB""\fR), or integer keywords set to \fB-1\fR,
will be used to indicate that the value is not available in the locale. The
following keywords are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdecimal_point\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The operand is a string containing the symbol that is used as the decimal
delimiter (radix character) in numeric, non-monetary formatted quantities. This
keyword cannot be omitted and cannot be set to the empty string. In contexts
where standards limit the \fBdecimal_point\fR to a single byte, the result of
specifying a multi-byte operand is unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBthousands_sep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The operand is a string containing the symbol that is used as a separator for
groups of digits to the left of the decimal delimiter in numeric, non-monetary
formatted monetary quantities. In contexts where standards limit the
\fBthousands_sep\fR to a single byte, the result of specifying a multi-byte
operand is unspecified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgrouping\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Define the size of each group of digits in formatted non-monetary quantities.
The operand is a sequence of integers separated by semicolons. Each integer
specifies the number of digits in each group, with the initial integer defining
the size of the group immediately preceding the decimal delimiter, and the
following integers defining the preceding groups. If the last integer is not
\fB\(mi1\fR, then the size of the previous group (if any) will be repeatedly
used for the remainder of the digits. If the last integer is \fB-1\fR, then no
further grouping will be performed. The non-monetary numeric formatting
definitions for the POSIX locale follow. The code listing depicts the
\fBlocaledef\fR input, the table representing the same information with the
addition of \fBlocaleconv\fR values, and \fBnl_langinfo\fR constants.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LC_NUMERIC
# This is the POSIX locale definition for
# the LC_NUMERIC category.
#
decimal_point	"<period>"
thousands_sep	""
grouping	-1
#
END LC_NUMERIC
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
l l l l l
l l l l l .
	\fBPOSIX locale\fR	\fBlanginfo\fR	\fBlocaleconv()\fR	\fBlocaledef\fR
\fBItem\fR	\fBValue\fR	\fBConstant\fR	\fBValue\fR	\fBValue\fR
_
\fBdecimal_point\fR	\fB"."\fR	\fBRADIXCHAR\fR	\fB"."\fR	\fB\&.\fR
\fBthousands_sep\fR	\fBn/a\fR	\fBTHOUSEP\fR	\fB""\fR	\fB""\fR
\fBgrouping\fR	\fBn/a\fR	\fB-\fR	\fB""\fR	\fB\(mi1\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
The entry \fBn/a\fR indicates that the value is not available in the POSIX
locale.
.SS "LC_TIME"
.LP
The  \fBLC_TIME\fR category defines the interpretation of the field descriptors
supported by  \fBdate\fR(1) and affects the behavior of the \fBstrftime\fR(3C),
\fBwcsftime\fR(3C), \fBstrptime\fR(3C), and \fBnl_langinfo\fR(3C) functions.
Because the interfaces for C-language access and locale definition differ
significantly, they are described separately. For locale definition, the
following mandatory keywords are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBabday\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the abbreviated weekday names, corresponding to the \fB%a\fR field
descriptor (conversion specification in the \fBstrftime()\fR, \fBwcsftime()\fR,
and \fBstrptime()\fR functions). The operand consists of seven
semicolon-separated strings, each surrounded by double-quotes. The first string
is the abbreviated name of the day corresponding to Sunday, the second the
abbreviated name of the day corresponding to Monday, and so on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBday\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the full weekday names, corresponding to the \fB%A\fR field descriptor.
The operand consists of seven semicolon-separated  strings, each surrounded by
double-quotes. The first string is the full name of the day corresponding to
Sunday, the second the full name of the day corresponding to Monday, and so on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBabmon\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the abbreviated month names, corresponding to the \fB%b\fR field
descriptor. The operand consists of twelve semicolon-separated strings, each
surrounded by double-quotes. The first string is the abbreviated name of the
first month of the year (January), the second the abbreviated name of the
second month, and so on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmon\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the full month names, corresponding to the \fB%B\fR field descriptor.
The operand consists of twelve semicolon-separated strings, each surrounded by
double-quotes. The first string is the full name of the first month of the year
(January), the second the full name of the second month, and so on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd_t_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the appropriate date and time representation, corresponding to the
\fB%c\fR field descriptor. The operand consists of a string, and can contain
any combination of characters and field descriptors. In addition, the string
can contain the escape sequences  \e\e, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR,
\fB\en\fR, \fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdate_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the appropriate date and time representation, corresponding to the
\fB%C\fR field descriptor. The operand consists of a string, and can contain
any combination of characters and field descriptors. In addition, the string
can contain the escape sequences  \fB\e\e\fR, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR,
\fB\en\fR, \fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the appropriate date representation, corresponding to the \fB%x\fR field
descriptor. The operand consists of a string, and can contain any combination
of characters and field descriptors. In addition, the string can contain the
escape sequences  \fB\e\e\fR, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR, \fB\en\fR,
\fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the appropriate time representation, corresponding to the \fB%X\fR field
descriptor. The operand consists of a string, and can contain any combination
of characters and field descriptors. In addition, the string can contain the
escape sequences  \fB\e\e\fR, \fB\ea\fR, \fB\eb\fR, \fB\ef\fR, \fB\en\fR,
\fB\er\fR, \fB\et\fR, \fB\ev\fR\&.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBam_pm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the appropriate representation of the \fIante meridiem\fR and \fIpost
meridiem\fR strings, corresponding to the \fB%p\fR field descriptor. The
operand consists of two strings, separated by a semicolon, each surrounded by
double-quotes. The first string represents the \fIante meridiem\fR designation,
the last string the \fIpost meridiem\fR designation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt_fmt_ampm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the appropriate time representation in the 12-hour clock format with
\fBam_pm\fR, corresponding to the \fB%r\fR field descriptor. The operand
consists of a string and can contain any combination of characters and field
descriptors. If the string is empty, the 12-hour format is not supported in the
locale.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBera\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define how years are counted and displayed for each era in a locale. The
operand consists of semicolon-separated strings. Each string is an era
description segment with the format:
.sp
\fIdirection\fR:\fIoffset\fR:\fIstart_date\fR:\fIend_date\fR:\fIera_name\fR:\fIera_format\fR
.sp
according to the definitions below.  There can be as many era description
segments as are necessary to describe the different eras.
.sp
The start of an era might not be the earliest point For example, the Christian
era B.C. starts on the day before January 1, A.D. 1, and increases with earlier
time.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdirection\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Either a \fB+\fR or a \fB-\fR character. The \fB+\fR character indicates that
years closer to the \fIstart_date\fR have lower numbers than those closer to
the \fIend_date\fR. The \fB-\fR character indicates that years closer to the
\fIstart_date\fR have higher numbers than those closer to the \fIend_date\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoffset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The number of the year closest to the \fIstart_date\fR in the era,
corresponding to the \fB%Eg\fR and \fB%Ey\fR field descriptors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIstart_date\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A date in the form \fIyyyy\fR/\fImm\fR/\fBdd\fR, where \fIyyyy\fR, \fImm\fR,
and \fBdd\fR are the year, month and day numbers respectively of the start of
the era. Years prior to A.D. 1 are represented as negative numbers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIend_date\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The ending date of the era, in the same format as the \fIstart_date\fR, or one
of the two special values -* or +*. The value -* indicates that the ending date
is the beginning of time. The value +* indicates that the ending date is the
end of time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIera_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A string representing the name of the era, corresponding to the \fB%EC\fR field
descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIera_format\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A string for formatting the year in the era, corresponding to the \fB%EG\fR and
\fB%EY\fR field descriptors.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBera_d_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the format of the date in alternative era notation, corresponding to the
\fB%Ex\fR field descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBera_t_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the locale's appropriate alternative time format, corresponding to the
\fB%EX\fR field descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBera_d_t_fmt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define the locale's appropriate alternative date and time format, corresponding
to the \fB%Ec\fR field descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBalt_digits\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Define alternative symbols for digits, corresponding to the \fB%O\fR field
descriptor modifier. The operand consists of semicolon-separated strings, each
surrounded by double-quotes. The first string is the alternative symbol
corresponding with zero, the second string the symbol corresponding with one,
and so on. Up to 100 alternative symbol strings can be specified. The \fB%O\fR
modifier indicates that the string corresponding to the value specified via the
field descriptor will be used instead of the value.
.RE

.SS "LC_TIME \fIC-language\fR Access"
.LP
The following information can be accessed. These correspond to constants
defined in <\fBlanginfo.h\fR> and used as arguments to the
\fBnl_langinfo\fR(3C) function.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBABDAY_\fIx\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The abbreviated weekday names (for example Sun), where \fIx\fR is a number from
1 to 7.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAY_\fIx\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The full weekday names (for example Sunday), where \fIx\fR is a number from 1
to 7.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBABMON_\fIx\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The abbreviated month names (for example Jan), where \fIx\fR is a number from 1
to 12.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMON_\fIx\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The full month names (for example January), where \fIx\fR is a number from 1 to
12.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBD_T_FMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The appropriate date and time representation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBD_FMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The appropriate date representation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT_FMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The appropriate time representation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAM_STR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The appropriate ante-meridiem affix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_STR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The appropriate post-meridiem affix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT_FMT_AMPM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The appropriate time representation in the 12-hour clock format with
\fBAM_STR\fR and  \fBPM_STR.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The era description segments, which describe how years are counted and
displayed for each era in a locale. Each era description segment has the
format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIdirection\fR:\fIoffset\fR:\fIstart_date\fR:\fIend_date\fR:\fIera_name\fR:\fIera_format\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

according to the definitions below. There will be as many era description
segments as are necessary to describe the different eras. Era description
segments are separated by semicolons.
.sp
The start of an era might not be the earliest point For example, the Christian
era B.C. starts on the day before January 1, A.D. 1, and increases with earlier
time.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdirection\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Either a + or a - character. The + character indicates that years closer to the
\fIstart_date\fR have lower numbers than those closer to the \fIend_date\fR.
The - character indicates that years closer to the \fIstart_date\fR have higher
numbers than those closer to the \fIend_date\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoffset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The number of the year closest to the start_date in the era.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIstart_date\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A date in the form \fIyyyy\fR/\fImm\fR/\fIdd\fR, where \fIyyyy\fR, \fImm\fR,
and \fBdd\fR are the year, month and day numbers respectively of the start of
the era. Years prior to AD 1 are represented as negative numbers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIend_date\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The ending date of the era, in the same format as the \fIstart_date\fR, or one
of the two special values, \fB-*\fR or \fB+*\fR. The value \fB-*\fR indicates
that the ending date is the beginning of time. The value \fB+*\fR indicates
that the ending date is the end of time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIera_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The era, corresponding to the \fB%EC\fR conversion specification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIera_format\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The format of the year in the era, corresponding to the \fB%EY\fR and \fB%EY\fR
conversion specifications.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERA_D_FMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The era date format.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERA_T_FMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The locale's appropriate alternative time format, corresponding to the
\fB%EX\fR field descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERA_D_T_FMT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The locale's appropriate alternative date and time format, corresponding to the
\fB%Ec\fR field descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBALT_DIGITS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The alternative symbols for digits, corresponding to the \fB%O\fR conversion
specification modifier. The value consists of semicolon-separated symbols. The
first is the alternative symbol corresponding to zero, the second is the symbol
corresponding to one, and so on.  Up to 100 alternative symbols may be
specified. The following table displays the correspondence between the items
described above and the conversion specifiers used by  \fBdate\fR(1) and the
\fBstrftime\fR(3C), \fBwcsftime\fR(3C), and \fBstrptime\fR(3C) functions.
.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c | c
c | c | c .
\fBlocaledef\fR	\fBlanginfo\fR	\fBConversion\fR
\fBKeyword\fR	\fBConstant\fR	\fBSpecifier\fR
_
\fBabday\fR	\fBABDAY_\fR\fIx\fR	\fB%a\fR
\fBday\fR	\fBDAY_\fR\fIx\fR	\fB%A\fR
\fBabmon\fR	\fBABMON_\fR\fIx\fR	\fB%b\fR
\fBmon\fR	\fBMON\fR	\fB%B\fR
\fBd_t_fmt\fR	\fBD_T_FMT\fR	\fB%c\fR
\fBdate_fmt\fR	\fBDATE_FMT\fR	\fB%C\fR
\fBd_fmt\fR	\fBD_FMT\fR	\fB%x\fR
\fBt_fmt\fR	\fBT_FMT\fR	\fB%X\fR
\fBam_pm\fR	\fBAM_STR\fR	\fB%p\fR
\fBam_pm\fR	\fBPM_STR\fR	\fB%p\fR
\fBt_fmt_ampm\fR	\fBT_FMT_AMPM\fR	\fB%r\fR
\fBera\fR	\fBERA\fR	\fB%EC, %Eg,\fR
		\fB%EG, %Ey, %EY\fR
\fBera_d_fmt\fR	\fBERA_D_FMT\fR	\fB%Ex\fR
\fBera_t_fmt\fR	\fBERA_T_FMT\fR	\fB%EX\fR
\fBera_d_t_fmt\fR	\fBERA_D_T_FMT\fR	\fB%Ec\fR
\fBalt_digits\fR	\fBALT_DIGITS\fR	\fB%O\fR
.TE

.SS "LC_TIME \fIGeneral\fR Information"
.LP
Although certain of the field descriptors in the POSIX locale (such as the name
of the month) are shown with initial capital letters, this need not be the case
in other locales. Programs using these fields may need to adjust the
capitalization if the output is going to be used at the beginning of a
sentence.
.sp
.LP
The \fBLC_TIME\fR descriptions of \fBabday\fR, \fBday\fR, \fBmon\fR, and
\fBabmon\fR imply a Gregorian style calendar (7-day weeks, 12-month years, leap
years, and so forth). Formatting time strings for other types of calendars is
outside the scope of this document set.
.sp
.LP
As specified under \fBdate\fR in \fBLocale Definition\fR and
\fBstrftime\fR(3C), the field descriptors corresponding to the optional
keywords consist of a modifier followed by a traditional field descriptor (for
instance \fB%Ex\fR). If the optional keywords are not supported by the
implementation or are unspecified for the current locale, these field
descriptors are treated as the traditional field descriptor. For instance,
assume the following keywords:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
alt_digits	"0th" ; "1st" ; "2nd" ; "3rd" ; "4th" ; "5th" ; \e
"6th" ; "7th" ; "8th" ; "9th" ; "10th">
d_fmt	"The %Od day of %B in %Y"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
On 7/4/1776, the \fB%x\fR field descriptor would result in "The 4th day of July
in 1776" while 7/14/1789 would come out as "The 14 day of July in 1789" The
above example is for illustrative purposes only. The \fB%O\fR modifier is
primarily intended to provide for Kanji or Hindi digits in \fBdate\fR formats.
.SS "LC_MESSAGES"
.LP
The  \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR category defines the format and values for affirmative
and negative responses.
.sp
.LP
The following keywords are recognized as part of the locale definition file.
The \fBnl_langinfo\fR(3C) function accepts upper-case versions of the first
four keywords.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fByesexpr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The operand consists of an extended regular expression (see \fBregex\fR(5))
that describes the acceptable affirmative response to a question expecting an
affirmative or negative response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnoexpr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The operand consists of an extended regular expression that describes the
acceptable negative response to a question expecting an affirmative or negative
response.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fByesstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The operand consists of a fixed string (not a regular expression) that can be
used by an application for composition of a message that lists an acceptable
affirmative response, such as in a prompt.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnostr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The operand consists of a fixed string that can be used by an application for
composition of a message that lists an acceptable negative response. The format
and values for affirmative and negative responses of the POSIX locale follow;
the code listing depicting the \fBlocaledef\fR input, the table representing
the same information with the addition of \fBnl_langinfo()\fR constants.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
LC_MESSAGES
# This is the POSIX locale definition for
# the LC_MESSAGES category.
#
yesexpr "<circumflex><left-square-bracket><y><Y>\e
        <right-square-bracket>"
#
noexpr  "<circumflex><left-square-bracket><n><N>\e
        <right-square-bracket>"
#
yesstr	"yes"
nostr	"no"
END LC_MESSAGES
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.RE

.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l | l
l | l | l .
\fBlocaledef Keyword\fR	\fBlanginfo Constant\fR	\fBPOSIX Locale Value\fR
\fByesexpr\fR	\fBYESEXPR\fR	\fB"^[yY]"\fR
\fBnoexpr\fR	\fBNOEXPR\fR	\fB"^[nN]"\fR
\fByesstr\fR	\fBYESSTR\fR	\fB"yes"\fR
\fBnostr\fR	\fBNOSTR\fR	\fB"no"\fR
.TE

.sp
.LP
In an application conforming to the SUSv3 standard, the information on
\fByesstr\fR and \fBnostr\fR is not available.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdate\fR(1), \fBlocale\fR(1), \fBlocaledef\fR(1), \fBsort\fR(1), \fBtr\fR(1),
\fBuniq\fR(1), \fBlocaleconv\fR(3C), \fBnl_langinfo\fR(3C),
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBstrcoll\fR(3C), \fBstrftime\fR(3C), \fBstrptime\fR(3C),
\fBstrxfrm\fR(3C), \fBwcscoll\fR(3C), \fBwcsftime\fR(3C), \fBwcsxfrm\fR(3C),
\fBwctype\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBcharmap\fR(5), \fBextensions\fR(5),
\fBregex\fR(5)
