.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016, Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2016, OmniTI Computer Consulting, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.Dd February 5, 2106
.Dt LX 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lx
.Nd zone brand for running a GNU/Linux user-level environment
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Em lx
brand
uses the
.Xr brands 5
framework to provide an environment for running binary applications built
for GNU/Linux. User-level code, including an entire Linux distribution, can
run inside the zone. Both 32-bit and 64-bit applications are supported. The
majority of Linux system calls are provided, along with emulation for a
variety of Linux file systems, such as
.Em proc ,
.Em cgroup
and
.Em sysfs .
.Pp
The
.Em /proc
file system within the zone is a subset of a full Linux
.Em /proc .
Most kernel-level tuning applied to
.Em /proc
is unavailable or ignored. Some tuning can be performed, but only to reduce
the overall limits that have been specified on the zone's configuration.
That is, within the zone there is no way to increase the resource limits set
on the zone itself.
.Pp
The zone must be installed using one of:  an absolute pathname of a
.Xr zfs 1m
send stream of a dataset which contains an image of the software to be run in
the zone, a name of a
.Xr zfs 1m
dataset to be cloned or snapshot to be promoted, or the absolute pathname of a
.Xr tar 1
file or gzipped tar file.
.Pp
Examples:
.Dl zoneadm -z myzone install -x nodataset
.Dl zoneadm -z myzone install -s /path/to/sendstream.zss
.Dl zoneadm -z myzone install -s name/of/dataset-to-clone
.Dl zoneadm -z myzone install -s name/of/snapshot-to@promote
.Dl zoneadm -z myzone install -t /path/to/tarball.tgz
.Pp
Applications provided by the base SunOS operating system are also available
within the zone under the
.Em /native
mount point. This allows the use of various native tools such as
.Xr dtrace 1m ,
.Xr mdb 1 ,
or the
.Xr proc 1
tools on GNU/Linux applications. However, not every native tool will work
properly within an
.Em lx
zone.
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The
.Em kernel-version
attribute can be included in the zone's
.Xr zonecfg 1m
settings as a way to specify the Linux version that the zone is emulating. For
example, the value could be
.Em 3.13.0 .
.Pp
Persistent network configuration (including DNS resolver information) can be
configured using
.Xr zonecfg 1m
as well, as attributes under the network property.  An example LX zone
configured with vNIC "lx1" using DHCP is below:

.Dl create -b
.Dl set zonepath=/zones/lx1
.Dl set brand=lx
.Dl set autoboot=true
.Dl set ip-type=exclusive
.Dl add net
.Dl set physical=lx1
.Dl add property (name=ip,value="dhcp")
.Dl add property (name=ips,value="dhcp")
.Dl add property (name=primary,value="true")
.Dl end
.Dl add attr
.Dl set name=dns-domain
.Dl set type=string
.Dl set value=example.com
.Dl end
.Dl add attr
.Dl set name=resolvers
.Dl set type=string
.Dl set value=192.21.12.1
.Dl end
.Dl add attr
.Dl set name=kernel-version
.Dl set type=string
.Dl set value=4.3.0
.Dl end

.Sh LIMITATIONS
The brand only supports the exclusive IP stack zone configuration.
.Pp
Most modern GNU/Linux application software runs on
.Em lx ,
but because there are some system calls or file systems which are not currently
implemented, it's possible that an application won't run. This does not
preclude the application running in the future as the
.Em lx
brand adds new capabilities.
.Pp
Because there is only the single SunOS kernel running on the system, there
is no support for any Linux kernel-level modules. That is, there is no support
for add-on drivers or any other modules that are part of the Linux kernel
itself. If that is required, a full virtual machine should be used instead of
an
.Em lx
branded zone.
.Pp
Any core files produced within the zone are in the native SunOS format.
.Pp
As with any zone, the normal security mechanisms and privileges apply. Thus,
certain operations (for example, changing the system time), will not be allowed
unless the zone has been configured with the appropriate additional privileges.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mdb 1 ,
.Xr proc 1 ,
.Xr dtrace 1m ,
.Xr zfs 1m ,
.Xr zoneadm 1m ,
.Xr zonecfg 1m ,
.Xr brands 5 ,
.Xr privileges 5 ,
.Xr resource_controls 5 ,
.Xr zones 5
