'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.TH ME 5 "Feb 25, 1992"
.SH NAME
me \- macros for formatting papers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBnroff\fR  \fB-me\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtroff\fR  \fB-me\fR [\fIoptions\fR] \fIfilename\fR...
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This package of \fBnroff\fR and \fBtroff\fR macro definitions provides a canned
formatting facility for technical papers in various formats. When producing
2-column output on a terminal, filter the output through \fBcol\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
The macro requests are defined below. Many \fBnroff\fR and \fBtroff\fR requests
are unsafe in conjunction with this package, however, these requests may be
used with impunity after the first \fB\&.pp\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.bp\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
begin new page
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.br\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
break output line here
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.sp \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
insert \fIn\fR spacing lines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.ls \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
(line spacing) \fIn\fR=1 single, \fIn\fR=2 double space
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.na\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
no alignment of right margin
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.ce \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
center next \fIn\fR lines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.ul \fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
underline next \fIn\fR lines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\&.sz \fI+n\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
add \fIn\fR to point size
.RE

.sp
.LP
Output of the \fBeqn\fR(1), \fBneqn\fR(1), \fBrefer\fR(1), and \fBtbl\fR(1)
preprocessors for equations and tables is acceptable as input.
.SH REQUESTS
.sp
.LP
In the following list, "initialization" refers to the first \fB\&.pp,\fR
\fB\&.lp\fR, \fB\&.ip\fR, \fB\&.np\fR, \fB\&.sh\fR, or \fB\&.uh\fR macro. This
list is incomplete.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c c
c c c c .
\fIRequest\fR	\fIInitial\fR	\fICause\fR	\fIExplanation\fR
	\fIValue\fR	\fIBreak\fR	
\fB\&.(c\fR	-	yes	Begin centered block.
\fB\&.(d\fR	-	no	Begin delayed text.
\fB\&.(f\fR	-	no	Begin footnote.
\fB\&.(l\fR	-	yes	Begin list.
\fB\&.(q\fR	-	yes	Begin major quote.
\fB\&.(x\fR\fIx\fR 	-	no	Begin indexed item in index \fIx\fR.
\fB\&.(z\fR	-	no	Begin floating keep.
\fB\&.)c\fR	-	yes	End centered block.
\fB\&.)d\fR	-	yes	End delayed text.
\fB\&.)f\fR	-	yes	End footnote.
\fB\&.)l\fR	-	yes	End list.
\fB\&.)q\fR	-	yes	End major quote.
\fB\&.)x\fR	-	yes	End index item.
\fB\&.)z\fR	-	yes	End floating keep.
\fB\&.++\fR \fIm H\fR 	-	no	Define paper section.
			\fIm\fR defines the part of the paper,
			T{
and can be \fBC\fR (chapter), \fBA\fR (appendix), \fBP\fR (preliminary, for instance,
T}
			abstract, table of contents, etc.),
			\fBB\fR (bibliography), \fBRC\fR (chapters
			renumbered from page one each
			chapter), or \fBRA\fR (appendix renumbered
			from page one).
\fB\&.+c \fR\fIT\fR 	-	yes	Begin chapter (or appendix, etc.,
			as set by \fB\&.++\fR).  \fIT\fR is
			the chapter title.
\fB\&.1c\fR	1	yes	One column format on a new page.
\fB\&.2c\fR	1	yes	Two column format.
\fB\&.EN\fR	-	yes	Space after equation produced by \fBeqn\fR
			or \fBneqn\fR.
\fB\&.EQ\fR \fIx y\fR 	-	yes	Precede equation; break out and
			add space.  Equation number is \fIy\fR.
			The optional argument \fIx\fR may be \fII\fR
			to indent equation (default),
			\fIL\fR to left-adjust the equation, or
			\fIC\fR to center the equation.
\fB\&.GE\fR	-	yes	End \fIgremlin\fR picture.
\fB\&.GS\fR	-	yes	Begin \fIgremlin\fR picture.
\fB\&.PE\fR	-	yes	End \fBpic\fR picture.
\fB\&.PS\fR	-	yes	Begin \fBpic\fR picture.
\fB\&.TH\fR - YES "heading End, section"
\fB\&.TE\fR	-	yes	End table.
\fB\&.TS\fR \fIx\fR	-	yes	Begin table; if \fIx\fR is \fIH\fR table
			has repeated heading.
\fB\&.ac\fR \fIA N\fR 	-	no	Set up for ACM style output.
			\fIA\fR is the Author's name(s), \fIN\fR is the
			total number of pages. Must be given
			before the first initialization.
\fB\&.b\fR \fIx\fR 	no	no	Print \fIx\fR in boldface; if no argument
			switch to boldface.
\fB\&.ba\fR \fI+n\fR 	0	yes	Augments the base indent by \fIn\fR.
			This indent is used to set the indent
			on regular text (like paragraphs).
\fB\&.bc\fR	no	yes	Begin new column.
\fB\&.bi\fR \fIx\fR 	no	no	Print \fIx\fR in bold italics
			(nofill only).
\fB\&.bu\fR	-	yes	Begin bulleted paragraph.
\fB\&.bx\fR \fIx\fR	no	no	Print \fIx\fR in a box (nofill only).
\fB\&.ef\fR  \fI\&'x'y'z\fR	\&'''''	no	Set even footer to \fIx y z\fR.
\fB\&.eh\fR \fI\&'x'y'z\fR	\&'''''	no	Set even header to \fIx y z\fR.
\fB\&.fo\fR \fI\&'x'y'z\fR	\&'''''	no	Set footer to \fIx y z\fR.
\fB\&.hx\fR	-	no	Suppress headers and footers on
			next page.
\fB\&.he\fR \fI\&'x'y'z\fR	\&'''''	no	Set header to \fIx  y  z\fR.
\fB\&.hl\fR	-	yes	Draw a horizontal line.
\fB\&.i\fR \fIx\fR 	no	no	Italicize \fIx\fR; if \fIx\fR missing, italic
			text follows.
\fB\&.ip\fR \fIx y\fR 	no	yes	Start indented paragraph, with
			hanging tag \fIx\fR.  Indentation is
			\fIy\fR ens (default 5).
\fB\&.lp\fR	yes	yes	Start left-blocked paragraph.
\fB\&.lo\fR	-	no	Read in a file of local macros
			of the form \fB\&.*\fR\fIx.\fR Must be
			given before initialization.
\fB\&.np\fR	1	yes	Start numbered paragraph.
\fB\&.of\fR \fI\&'x'y'z\fR	\&'''''	no	Set odd footer to x  y  z.
\fB\&.oh\fR \fI\&'x'y'z\fR	\&'''''	no	Set odd header to x  y  z.
\fB\&.pd\fR	-	yes	Print delayed text.
\fB\&.pp\fR	no	yes	Begin paragraph. First line indented.
\fB\&.r\fR	yes	no	Roman text follows.
\fB\&.re\fR	-	no	Reset tabs to default values.
\fB\&.sc\fR	no	no	Read in a file of special characters
			and diacritical marks.  Must be
			given before initialization.
\fB\&.sh\fR \fIn x\fR 	-	yes	Section head follows, font
			automatically bold.  \fIn\fR is level
			of section, \fIx\fR is title of section.
\fB\&.sk\fR	no	no	Leave the next page blank.
			Only one page is remembered ahead.
\fB\&.sm\fR \fIx\fR	-	no	Set \fIx\fR in a smaller pointsize.
\fB\&.sz\fR \fI+n\fR 	10p	no	Augment the point size by \fIn\fR points.
\fB\&.th\fR	no	no	Produce the paper in thesis format.
			Must be given before initialization.
\fB\&.tp\fR	no	yes	Begin title page.
\fB\&.u\fR \fIx\fR	-	no	Underline argument (even in \fBtroff\fR).
			(Nofill only).
\fB\&.uh\fR	-	yes	Like \fB\&.sh\fR but unnumbered.
\fB\&.xp\fR \fIx\fR 	-	no	Print index \fIx\fR.
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/e\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/share/lib/tmac/*.me\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcol\fR(1), \fBeqn\fR(1), \fBnroff\fR(1), \fBrefer\fR(1), \fBtbl\fR(1),
\fBtroff\fR(1)
