.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2023 Toomas Soome <tsoome@me.com>
.\"
.Dd March 30, 2023
.Dt MENU.LST 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm menu.lst
.Nd List of entries for boot menu
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa <pool>/boot/menu.lst
.Pp
.Pa /boot/menu.lst
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This file contains the list of menu entries for use by boot loader.
The location is either root dataset of boot zfs pool or
.Pa /boot
directory of root file system.
.Nm
is created automatically by
.Xr beadm 8 ,
and can be managed by
.Xr bootadm 8 .
.Pp
Each menu entry in
.Nm
consists of two lines:
.Pp
.Dl Sy title Ar name
.Dl Ar type Ar data
.Pp
Where first line will set name for the menu entry and second line
will declare the type and type specific data for boot menu entry.
.Pp
Currently accepted types are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy bootfs
to specify the name or location of the boot file system.
.It Sy chain
to specify device or file to be used with
.Xr loader 7
.Sy chain
command.
.El
.Pp
The boot file system name could be either the name of zfs dataset or
the device name in case of
.Xr ufs 4fs ,
.Xr pcfs 4fs ,
or other currently supported disk based file system.
.Pp
Device name for
.Sy chain
command must use the form
.Pp
.Dl diskN[pX]: or diskN[sXpY]:
.Dl zfs:pool/dataset:
.Pp
See output of loader
.Cm lsdev Fl v
command for available device names.
.Sh FILES
.Pa <pool>/boot/menu.lst
.Pp
.Pa /boot/menu.lst
.Sh EXAMPLES
A sample
.Nm
file.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
title Disk1:
chain disk1:
title Disk2_UFS
bootfs disk2s1a:
title openindiana-2023:01:03
bootfs rpool/ROOT/openindiana-2023:01:03
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pcfs 4fs ,
.Xr ufs 4fs ,
.Xr loader 7 ,
.Xr beadm 8 ,
.Xr bootadm 8
