.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Nov 26, 2017
.Dt PAM_TIMESTAMP 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pam_timestamp
.Nd PAM authentication module using cached successful authentication attempts
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm pam_timestamp.so.1
.Op Ar debug
.Op Ar timeout=min
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
module caches successful tty-based authentication attempts by
creating user's directories and per tty timestamp files in the
common timestamp directory
.Pa /var/run/tty_timestamps .
Next authentication, if the timestamp file exist and not expired,
the user will not be asked for a password, otherwise timestamp
file will be deleted and user will be prompted to enter a password.
.Lp
The PAM items
.Dv PAM_USER ,
.Dv PAM_AUSER
and
.Dv PAM_TTY
are used by this module.
.Sy pam_timestamp
is normally configured as
.Sy sufficient
and must be used in conjunction with the modules that support
the UNIX authentication, which are
.Xr pam_authtok_get 5 ,
.Xr pam_unix_cred 5
and
.Xr pam_unix_auth 5 .
Proper authentication operation requires
.Xr pam_unix_cred 5
be stacked above
.Nm .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv debug
Provides
.Xr syslog 3
debugging information at the
.Sy LOG_AUTH | LOG_DEBUG
level.
.It Dv timeout
Specifies the period (in minutes) for which the timestamp file is valid.
The default value is 5 minutes.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Pa /var/run/tty_timestamps/...
stores timestamp directories and files
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv PAM_SUCCESS
Timestamp file is not expired.
.It Dv PAM_IGNORE
The
.Nm
module was not able to retrieve required credentials
or timestamp file is expired or corrupt.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss Example 1 Allowing su authentication
.
The following example is a
.Xr pam.conf 4
fragment that illustrates default settings for allowing
.Xr su 1M
authentication:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
su  auth required	pam_unix_cred.so.1
su  auth sufficient	pam_timestamp.so.1
su  auth requisite	pam_authtok_get.so.1
su  auth required	pam_unix_auth.so.1
.Ed
.Ss Example 2 Changing default timeout
.
The default timeout set to 10 minutes:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
su  auth required	pam_unix_cred.so.1
su  auth sufficient	pam_timestamp.so.1	timeout=10
su  auth requisite	pam_authtok_get.so.1
su  auth required	pam_unix_auth.so.1
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted .
.Sh MT LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr su 1M ,
.Xr syslog 3C ,
.Xr pam 3PAM ,
.Xr pam_sm_authenticate 3PAM ,
.Xr pam_sm_setcred 3PAM ,
.Xr pam.conf 4
