'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_DHKEYS 5 "Jan 21, 2003"
.SH NAME
pam_dhkeys \- authentication Diffie-Hellman keys management module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpam_dhkeys.so.1\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_dhkeys.so.1\fR service module provides functionality to two
\fBPAM\fR services: Secure \fBRPC\fR authentication and Secure \fBRPC\fR
authentication token management.
.sp
.LP
Secure RPC authentication differs from regular unix authentication because NIS+
and other \fBONC RPC\fRs use Secure RPC as the underlying security mechanism.
.sp
.LP
The following options may be passed to the module:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdebug\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fBsyslog\fR(3C) debugging information at \fBLOG_DEBUG\fR level
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBnowarn\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Turn off warning messages
.RE

.SS "Authentication Services"
.sp
.LP
If the user has Diffie-Hellman keys, \fBpam_sm_authenticate()\fR establishes
secret keys for the user specified by the \fBPAM_USER\fR (equivalent to running
\fBkeylogin\fR(1)), using the authentication token found in the
\fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR item. Not being able to establish the secret keys results in
an authentication error if the NIS+ repository is used to authenticate the user
and the NIS+ table permissions require secure RPC credentials to access the
password field. If \fBpam_sm_setcred()\fR is called with
\fBPAM_ESTABLISH_CRED\fR and the user's secure \fBRPC\fR credentials need to be
established, these credentials are set. This is equivalent to running
\fBkeylogin\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
If the credentials could not be set and \fBPAM_SILENT\fR is not specified, a
diagnostic message is displayed. If \fBpam_setcred()\fR is called with
\fBPAM_DELETE_CRED\fR, the user's secure \fBRPC\fR credentials are unset. This
is equivalent to running \fBkeylogout\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
\fBPAM_REINITIALIZE_CRED\fR and \fBPAM_REFRESH_CRED\fR are not supported and
return \fBPAM_IGNORE\fR.
.SS "Authentication Token Management"
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_sm_chauthtok()\fR implementation checks whether the old login
password decrypts the users secret keys. If it doesn't this module prompts the
user for an old Secure \fBRPC\fR password and stores it in a pam data item
called \fBSUNW_OLDRPCPASS\fR. This data item can be used by the store module to
effectively update the users secret keys.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The authentication service returns the following error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Credentials set successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_IGNORE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Credentials not needed to access the password repository.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
\fBPAM_USER\fR is not set, or the user is unknown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTH_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
No secret keys were set. \fBPAM_AUTHTOK\fR is not set, no credentials are
present or there is a wrong password.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_BUF_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Module ran out of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SYSTEM_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The NIS\(ma+ subsystem failed .
.RE

.sp
.LP
The authentication token management returns the following error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SUCCESS \fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Old \fBrpc\fR password is set in \fBSUNW_OLDRPCPASS\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
User in \fBPAM_USER\fR is unknown.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_AUTHTOK_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
User did not provide a password that decrypts the secret keys.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_BUF_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Module ran out of memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBkeylogin\fR(1), \fBkeylogout\fR(1), \fBpam\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_chauthtok\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_setcred\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_get_item\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_set_data\fR(3PAM),
\fBpam_get_data\fR(3PAM), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB),
\fBpam.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5),
\fBpam_authtok_get\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_store\fR(5), \fBpam_passwd_auth\fR(5),
\fBpam_unix_account\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_auth\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_session\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB) are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multi-threaded application uses its own PAM handle.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpam_unix\fR(5) module is no longer supported. Similar functionality is
provided by \fBpam_authtok_check\fR(5), \fBpam_authtok_get\fR(5),
\fBpam_authtok_store\fR(5), \fBpam_dhkeys\fR(5), \fBpam_passwd_auth\fR(5),
\fBpam_unix_account\fR(5), \fBpam_unix_auth\fR(5), and
\fBpam_unix_session\fR(5).
