'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PAM_LIST 5 "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
pam_list \- PAM account management module for UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
 pam_list.so.1
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpam_list\fR module implements \fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM), which
provides  functionality to the PAM account management stack.  The module
provides functions to validate  that  the  user's account  is  valid on this
host based on a list of users and/or netgroups in the given file. The users and
netgroups are separated by newline character. Netgroups are specified with
character '@' as prefix before name of netgroup in the list. The maximum line
length is 1023 characters.
.sp
.LP
The username is the value of \fBPAM_USER\fR. The host is the value of
\fBPAM_RHOST\fR or, if \fBPAM_RHOST\fR is not set, the value of the localhost
as returned by \fBgethostname\fR(3C) is used.
.sp
.LP
If neither of the \fBallow\fR, \fBdeny\fR, or \fBcompat\fR options are
specified, the module will look for +/- entries in the local \fB/etc/passwd\fR
file.  If this style is used, \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) must not be configured
with \fBcompat\fR for the \fBpasswd\fR database. If no relevant +/- entry
exists for the user, \fBpam_list\fR is not participating in result.
.sp
.LP
If \fBcompat\fR option is specified then the module will look for +/- entries
in the local \fB/etc/passwd\fR file. Other entries in this file will be counted
as + entries. If no relevant entry exits for the user, \fBpam_list\fR will deny
the access.
.sp
.LP
The following options can be passed to the module:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBallow=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The full pathname to a file of allowed users and/or netgroups. Only one of
\fBallow=\fR or \fBdeny=\fR can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcompat\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Activate \fBcompat\fR mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdeny=\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The full pathname to a file of denied users and/or netgroups. Only one of
\fBdeny=\fR or \fBallow=\fR can be specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdebug\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Provide \fBsyslog\fR(3C) debugging information at the \fBLOG_AUTH\fR |
\fBLOG_DEBUG\fR level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The module should only perform netgroup matches on the username. This is the
default option.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnouser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The username should not be used in the netgroup match.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhost\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Only the host should be used in netgroup matches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnohost\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The hostname should not be used in netgroup matches.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuser_host_exact\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The user and hostname must be in the same netgroup.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.LP
The following error values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SERVICE_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
An invalid set of module options was given in the \fBpam.conf\fR(4) for this
module, or the \fBuser/netgroup\fR file could not be opened.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_BUF_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
A memory buffer error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_IGNORE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The module is ignored, as it is not participating in the result.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_PERM_DENIED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The user is not on the allow list or is on the deny list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The account is valid for use at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPAM_USER_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
No account is present for the user
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBpam_list\fR in default mode
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/pam.conf\fR modification looks like:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
other   account requisite       pam_roles.so.1
other   account required        pam_unix_account.so.1
other   account required        pam_list.so.1
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In the case of \fBdefault\fR mode or \fBcompat\fR mode, the important lines in
\fB/etc/passwd\fR appear as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
+loginname	- user is approved
-loginname	- user is disapproved
+@netgroup	- netgroup members are approved
-@netgroup	- netgroup members are disapproved
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUsing \fBpam_list\fR with allow file
.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/pam.conf\fR modification looks like:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
other   account requisite       pam_roles.so.1
other   account required        pam_unix_account.so.1
other   account required        pam_list.so.1 allow=etc/user.allow
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fB/etc/users.allow\fR contains:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
root
localloginname
remoteloginname
@netgroup
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.sp
.LP
The interfaces in \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB) are MT-Safe only if each thread within the
multithreaded application uses its own PAM handle.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpam\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_authenticate\fR(3PAM), \fBpam_sm_acct_mgmt\fR(3PAM),
\fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBlibpam\fR(3LIB), \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4),
\fBpam.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
