.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2017, Nexenta Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2020-2023, RackTop Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2022 Jason King
.\" Copyright 2023 Bill Sommerfeld
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.Dd November 8, 2023
.Dt SMB 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smb
.Nd configuration properties for illumos CIFS server
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Behavior of the illumos CIFS server is defined by property values that are
stored in the Service Management Facility,
.Xr smf 7 .
.Pp
An authorized user can use the
.Xr sharectl 8
command to set global values
for these properties in SMF.
.Pp
The following list describes the properties:
.Bl -tag -width x
.It Sy ads_site
.Pp
Specifies the site configured in DNS to look up Active Directory information.
Sites provide a mechanism to partition or delegate administration and policy
management, which are typically used in large or complex domains.
.Pp
The value should not be set if you do not have a local Active Directory site.
By default, no value is set.
.It Sy autohome_map
.Pp
Specifies the full path for the SMD autohome map file,
.Pa smbautohome .
The default path is
.Pa /etc .
.It Sy bypass_traverse_checking
.Pp
When set, allows the SMB server to bypass ACL
.Dq traverse
checks.
The default value is
.Ql true ,
for Windows compatibility.
If this parameter is
.Ql false ,
ACL checks require that
.Dq traverse
.Pq directory execute
is granted on every directory
above the directory the SMB client tries to access.
Windows shares are normally setup with the higher level
directories not specifically granting such access.
.It Sy disposition
.Pp
A value that controls whether to disconnect the share or proceed if the map
command fails.
The disposition property only has meaning when the map property
has been set.
Otherwise it will have no effect.
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
disposition = [ continue | terminate ]
.Ed
.Bl -tag -width terminate
.It Sy continue
Proceed with share connection if the map command fails.
This is the default in the event that disposition is not specified.
.It Sy terminate
Disconnect the share if the map command fails.
.El
.It Sy ddns_enable
.Pp
Enables or disables dynamic DNS updates.
A value of
.Ql true
enables dynamic updates, while a value of
.Ql false
disables dynamic updates.
By default, the value is
.Ql false .
.It Sy encrypt
.Pp
Controls SMB3 Encryption.
For requests on a particular share, the server's
behavior is controlled by the stricter of this option and the per-share
.Dq encrypt
option.
.Pp
When set to
.Ql disabled ,
the server will not ask clients to encrypt requests.
Note that this setting does not actually disable encryption, but leaves the
decision about whether to encrypt up to the client and/or the per-share options.
When set to
.Ql enabled ,
the server will ask clients to encrypt requests,
but will not require that they do so.
Any message that can be encrypted will be encrypted.
When set to
.Ql required ,
the server will deny access to or disconnect
any client that does not support encryption or fails to encrypt requests
that they should.
.Pp
In other words, the
.Ql enabled
behavior is that any message that
.Em can
be encrypted
.Em should
be encrypted, while the
.Ql required
behavior is that any message that
.Em can
be encrypted
.Em must
be encrypted.
.It Sy encrypt_ciphers
.Pp
Specifies a list of enabled SMB 3.1.1 encryption ciphers.
This property is only used when encryption is
.Ql enabled
.Po
see
.Sy encrypt
property
.Pc
and negotiated SMB dialect is 3.1.1 or higher
.Po
see
.Sy max_protocol
property
.Pc .
Otherwise it is ignored.
.Pp
When the property is set, a list of comma separated ciphers should be specified,
or the value
.Ql all
should be used instead to enable all supported ciphers.
When the property is empty, it is equivalent to value
.Ql all
\(em all supported ciphers are enabled.
.Pp
The list of ciphers should contain these values:
.Bl -tag -width "aes128-ccm"
.It Sy aes128-ccm
AES-128-CCM cipher is enabled.
It is the only cipher used for SMB 3.0.2 dialect.
.It Sy aes128-gcm
AES-128-GCM cipher is enabled.
.It Sy aes256-ccm
AES-256-CCM cipher is enabled.
.It Sy aes256-gcm
AES-256-GCM cipher is enabled.
.It Sy all
All ciphers are enabled.
.El
.It Sy ipv6_enable
.Pp
Enables IPv6 Internet protocol support within the CIFS Service.
Valid values are
.Ql true
and
.Ql false .
The default value is
.Ql false .
.It Sy keep_alive
.Pp
Specifies the number of seconds before an idle SMB connection is dropped by the
illumos CIFS server.
If set to
.Ql 0 ,
idle connections are not dropped.
Valid values are
.Ql 0
and from
.Ql 20
seconds and above.
The default value is
.Ql 0 .
.It Sy lmauth_level
Specifies the LAN Manager (LM) authentication level.
The LM compatibility level
controls the type of user authentication to use in workgroup mode or domain
mode.
The default value is 4.
.Pp
The following describes the behavior at each level.
.Bl -tag -width "1"
.It Sy 2
In Windows workgroup mode, the illumos CIFS server accepts LM, NTLM, LMv2, and
NTLMv2 requests.
In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the illumos CIFS server
sends NTLM requests.
.It Sy 3
In Windows workgroup mode, the illumos CIFS server accepts LM, NTLM, LMv2, and
NTLMv2 requests.
In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the illumos CIFS server
sends LMv2 and NTLMv2 requests.
.It Sy 4
In Windows workgroup mode, the illumos CIFS server accepts NTLM, LMv2, and
NTLMv2 requests.
In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the illumos CIFS server
sends LMv2 and NTLMv2 requests.
.It Sy 5
In Windows workgroup mode, the illumos CIFS server accepts LMv2 and NTLMv2
requests.
In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the illumos CIFS server sends
LMv2 and NTLMv2 requests.
.El
.It Sy map
.Pp
The value is a command to be executed when connecting to the share.
The command
can take the following arguments, which will be substituted when the command is
exec'd as described below:
.Bl -tag -width "xx"
.It Sy % Ns Sy U
Windows username.
.It Sy % Ns Sy D
Name of the domain or workgroup of
.Sy % Ns Sy U .
.It Sy %h
The server hostname.
.It Sy %M
The client hostname, or
.Dq ""
if not available.
.It Sy %L
The server NetBIOS name.
.It Sy %m
The client NetBIOS name, or
.Dq ""
if not available.
This option is only valid for NetBIOS connections (port 139).
.It Sy % Ns Sy I
The IP address of the client machine.
.It Sy %i
The local IP address to which the client is connected.
.It Sy %S
The name of the share.
.It Sy % Ns Sy P
The root directory of the share.
.It Sy %u
The UID of the Unix user.
.El
.It Sy max_protocol
.Pp
Specifies the maximum SMB protocol level that the SMB service
should allow clients to negotiate.
The default value is
.Ql 3.11 .
Valid settings include:
.Ql 1 ,
.Ql 2.1 ,
.Ql 3.0 ,
.Ql 3.02 ,
.Ql 3.11 .
.It Sy min_protocol
.Pp
Specifies the minimum SMB protocol level that the SMB service
should allow clients to negotiate.
The default value is
.Ql 1 .
Valid settings include:
.Ql 1 ,
.Ql 2.1 ,
.Ql 3.0 .
.It Sy max_workers
.Pp
Specifies the maximum number of worker threads that will be launched to process
incoming CIFS requests.
The SMB
.Sy max_mpx
value, which indicates to a
client the maximum number of outstanding SMB requests that it may have pending
on the server, is derived from the
.Sy max_workers
value.
To ensure compatibility with older versions of Windows the lower 8-bits of
.Sy max_mpx
must not be zero.
If the lower byte of
.Sy max_workers
is zero,
.Ql 64
is added to the value.
Thus the minimum value is
.Ql 64
and the default value, which appears in
.Xr sharectl 8
as
.Ql 1024 ,
is
.Ql 1088 .
.It Sy netbios_scope
.Pp
Specifies the NetBIOS scope identifier, which identifies logical NetBIOS
networks that are on the same physical network.
When you specify a NetBIOS
scope identifier, the server filters the number of machines that are listed in
the browser display to make it easier to find other hosts.
The value is a text string that represents a domain name.
By default, no value is set.
.It Sy oplock_enable
.Pp
Controls whether
.Dq oplocks
may be granted by the SMB server.
The term
.Dq oplock
is short for
.Dq opportunistic lock ,
which is the legacy name for cache delegations in SMB.
By default, oplocks are enabled.
Note that if oplocks are disabled, file I/O performance may be severely reduced.
.It Sy pdc
.Pp
Specifies the preferred IP address for the domain controller.
This property is
sometimes used when there are multiple domain controllers to indicate which one
is preferred.
If the specified domain controller responds, it is chosen even if
the other domain controllers are also available.
By default, no value is set.
.It Sy restrict_anonymous
.Pp
Disables anonymous access to
.Sy IPC$ ,
which requires that the client be authenticated to get access to MSRPC
services through
.Sy IPC$ .
A value of
.Ql true
disables anonymous access to
.Sy IPC$ ,
while a value of
.Ql false
enables anonymous access.
.It Sy short_names
.Pp
Enables the use of
.Dq short names
by SMB clients.
The default value is
.Ql false
because modern SMB clients do not need short names, and
using short names has some performance cost while listing directories
and opening or renaming files.
.It Sy sign_algs
Specifies a list of enabled SMB 3.1.1 signing algorithms.
This property is only used when the negotiated SMB dialect is 3.1.1 or higher
.Po
see
.Sy max_protocol
property
.Pc
and the client provides the appropriate negotiation context.
Otherwise it is ignored.
.Pp
When the property is set, a list of comma separated algorithms should be
specified, or the value
.Ql all
should be used instead to enable all supported algorithms.
When the property is empty, it is equivalent to the value
.Ql aes128-cmac .
.Pp
The list of algorithms should contain these values:
.Bl -tag -width "sha256-hmac"
.It Sy sha256-hmac
SHA-256-HMAC algorithm is enabled.
SMB2 always uses SHA-256-HMAC and ignores this setting.
.It Sy aes128-cmac
AES-128-CMAC algorithm is enabled.
This is the default for SMB 3.1.1.
SMB3.0 always uses AES-128-CMAC and ignores this setting.
.It Sy all
All algorithms are enabled, including those currently implemented
and any future algorithms that might be implemented.
.El
.It Sy signing_enabled
.Pp
Enables SMB signing.
When signing is enabled but not required it is possible
for clients to connect regardless of whether or not the client supports SMB
signing.
If a packet has been signed, the signature will be verified.
If a
packet has not been signed it will be accepted without signature verification.
Valid values are
.Ql true
and
.Ql false .
The default value is
.Ql true .
.It Sy signing_required
.Pp
When SMB signing is required, all packets must be signed or they will be
rejected, and clients that do not support signing will be unable to connect to
the server.
The
.Sy signing_required
setting is only taken into account when
.Sy signing_enabled
is
.Ql true .
Valid values are
.Ql true
and
.Ql false .
The default value is
.Ql true .
.It Sy system_comment
.Pp
Specifies an optional description for the system, which is a text string.
This
property value might appear in various places, such as Network Neighborhood or
Network Places on Windows clients.
By default, no value is set.
.It Sy traverse_mounts
.Pp
The
.Sy traverse_mounts
setting determines how the SMB server
presents sub-mounts underneath an SMB share.
When
.Sy traverse_mounts
is
.Ql true
(the default), sub-mounts are presented to SMB clients
like any other subdirectory.
When
.Sy traverse_mounts
is
.Ql false ,
sub-mounts are not shown to SMB clients.
.It Sy unmap
.Pp
The value is a command to be executed when disconnecting the share.
The command can take the same substitutions listed on the
.Sy map
property.
.It Sy wins_exclude
.Pp
Specifies a comma-separated list of network interfaces that should not be
registered with WINS.
NetBIOS host announcements are made on excluded interfaces.
By default, no value is set.
.It Sy wins_server_1
.Pp
Specifies the IP address of the primary WINS server.
By default, no value is set.
.It Sy wins_server_2
.Pp
Specifies the IP address of the secondary WINS server.
By default, no value is set.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
Uncommitted
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr smf 7 ,
.Xr sharectl 8 ,
.Xr smbadm 8 ,
.Xr smbd 8 ,
.Xr smbstat 8
