'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STANDARDS 5 "Jan 11, 2015"
.SH NAME
standards, ANSI, C, C++, ISO, POSIX, POSIX.1, POSIX.2, SUS, SUSv2, SUSv3, SVID,
SVID3, XNS, XNS4, XNS5, XPG, XPG3, XPG4, XPG4v2 \- standards and specifications
supported by Solaris
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Solaris 10 supports IEEE Std 1003.1 and IEEE Std 1003.2, commonly known as
POSIX.1 and POSIX.2, respectively. The following table lists each version of
these standards with a brief description and the SunOS or Solaris release that
first conformed to it.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
POSIX Standard	Description	Release
_
POSIX.1-1988	system interfaces and headers	SunOS 4.1
_
POSIX.1-1990	POSIX.1-1988 update	Solaris 2.0
_
POSIX.1b-1993	realtime extensions	Solaris 2.4
_
POSIX.1c-1996	threads extensions	Solaris 2.6
_
POSIX.2-1992	shell and utilities	Solaris 2.5
_
POSIX.2a-1992	interactive shell and utilities	Solaris 2.5
_
POSIX.1-2001	T{
POSIX.1-1990, POSIX.1b-1993, POSIX.1c-1996, POSIX.2-1992, and POSIX.2a-1992 updates
T}	Solaris 10
.TE

.sp
.LP
Solaris 10 also  supports the X/Open Common Applications Environment (CAE)
Portability Guide Issue 3 (XPG3) and Issue 4 (XPG4); Single UNIX Specification
(SUS, also known as XPG4v2); Single UNIX Specification, Version 2 (SUSv2); and
Single UNIX Specification, Version 3 (SUSv3). Both XPG4 and SUS include
Networking Services Issue 4 (XNS4). SUSv2 includes Networking Services Issue 5
(XNS5).
.sp
.LP
The following table lists each X/Open specification with a brief description
and the SunOS or Solaris release that first conformed to it.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
c c c .
X/Open CAE		
_
 Specification	Description	Release
_
XPG3	T{
superset of POSIX.1-1988 containing utilities from SVID3
T}	SunOS 4.1
_
XPG4	T{
superset of POSIX.1-1990, POSIX.2-1992, and POSIX.2a-1992 containing extensions to POSIX standards from XPG3
T}	Solaris 2.4
_
SUS (XPG4v2)	T{
superset of XPG4 containing historical BSD interfaces widely used by common application packages
T}	Solaris 2.6
_
XNS4	sockets and XTI interfaces	Solaris 2.6
_
SUSv2	T{
superset of SUS extended to support POSIX.1b-1993, POSIX.1c-1996, and ISO/IEC 9899 (C Standard) Amendment 1
T}	Solaris 7
_
XNS5	T{
superset and LP64-clean derivative of XNS4.
T}	Solaris 7
_
SUSv3	same as POSIX.1-2001	Solaris 10
.TE

.sp
.LP
The XNS4 specification is safe for use only in ILP32 (32-bit) environments and
should not be used for LP64 (64-bit) application environments. Use XNS5 or
SUSv3, which have LP64-clean interfaces that are portable across ILP32 and LP64
environments. Solaris releases 7 through 10 support both the ILP32 and LP64
environments.
.sp
.LP
Solaris releases 7 through 10 have been branded to conform to The Open Group's
UNIX 98 Product Standard. Solaris 10 has been branded to conform to The Open
Group's UNIX 03 Product Standard.
.sp
.LP
Solaris releases 2.0 through 10 support the interfaces specified by the System
V Interface Definition, Third Edition, Volumes 1 through 4 (SVID3).  Note,
however, that since the developers of this specification (UNIX Systems
Laboratories) are no longer in business and since this specification defers to
POSIX and X/Open CAE specifications, there is some disagreement about what is
currently required for conformance to this specification.
.sp
.LP
When \fBSun Studio C Compiler 5.6\fR is installed, Solaris releases 2.0 through
10 support the ANSI X3.159-1989 Programming Language - C and ISO/IEC 9899:1990
Programming Language - C (C) interfaces.
.sp
.LP
When \fBSun Studio C Compiler 5.6\fR is installed, Solaris releases 7 through
10 support ISO/IEC 9899:1990 Amendment 1:1995: C Integrity.
.sp
.LP
When \fBSun Studio C Compiler 5.6\fR is installed, Solaris 10 supports ISO/IEC
9899:1999 Programming Languages - C.
.sp
.LP
When \fBSun Studio C++ Compiler 5.6\fR is installed, Solaris releases 2.5.1
through 10 support ISO/IEC 14882:1998 Programming Languages - C++.  Unsupported
features of that standard are described in the compiler README file.
.SS "Utilities"
.LP
If the behavior required by POSIX.2, POSIX.2a, XPG4, SUS, or SUSv2 conflicts
with historical Solaris utility behavior, the original Solaris version of the
utility is unchanged; a new version that is standard-conforming has been
provided in \fB/usr/xpg4/bin\fR. If the behavior required by POSIX.1-2001 or
SUSv3 conflicts with historical Solaris utility behavior, a new version that is
standard-conforming has been provided in \fB/usr/xpg4/bin\fR or in
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin\fR. If the behavior required by POSIX.1-2001 or SUSv3
conflicts with POSIX.2, POSIX.2a, SUS, or SUSv2, a new version that is SUSv3
standard-conforming has been provided in \fB/usr/xpg6/bin\fR.
.sp
.LP
An application that wants to use standard-conforming utilitues must set the
\fBPATH\fR (\fBsh\fR(1) or \fBksh\fR(1)) or \fBpath\fR (\fBcsh\fR(1))
environment variable to specify the directories listed below in the order
specified to get the appropriate utilities:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSVID3, XPG3\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.RS +4
.TP
1.
\fB/usr/ccs/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fB/usr/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
directory containing binaries for your compiler
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
other directories containing binaries needed by the application
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPOSIX.2, POSIX.2a, SUS, SUSv2, XPG4\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.RS +4
.TP
1.
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fB/usr/ccs/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
\fB/usr/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
directory containing binaries for your compiler
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
other directories containing binaries needed by the application
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPOSIX.1-2001, SUSv3\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
.RS +4
.TP
1.
\fB/usr/xpg6/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
\fB/usr/xpg4/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
\fB/usr/ccs/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
\fB/usr/bin\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
directory containing binaries for your compiler
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
other directories containing binaries needed by the application
.RE
.RE

.SS "Feature Test Macros"
.LP
Feature test macros are used by applications to indicate additional sets of
features that are desired beyond those specified by the C standard. If an
application uses only those interfaces and headers defined by a particular
standard (such as POSIX or X/Open CAE),  then it need only define the
appropriate feature test macro specified by that standard. If the application
is using interfaces and headers not defined by that standard, then in addition
to defining the appropriate standard feature test macro, it must also define
\fB__EXTENSIONS__\fR. Defining \fB__EXTENSIONS__\fR provides the application
with access to all interfaces and headers not in conflict with the specified
standard. The application must define \fB__EXTENSIONS__\fR either on the
compile command line or within the application source files.
.SS "1989 ANSI C, 1990 ISO C, 1999 ISO C"
.LP
No feature test macros need to be defined to indicate that an application is a
conforming C application.
.SS "ANSI/ISO C++"
.LP
ANSI/ISO C++ does not define any feature test macros. If the standard C++
announcement macro \fB__cplusplus\fR is predefined to value 199711 or greater,
the compiler operates in a standard-conforming mode, indicating C++ standards
conformance. The value 199711 indicates conformance to ISO/IEC 14882:1998, as
required by that standard.  (As noted above, conformance to the standard is
incomplete.)  A standard-conforming mode is not available with compilers prior
to Sun WorkShop C++ 5.0.
.sp
.LP
C++ bindings are not defined for POSIX or X/Open CAE, so specifying feature
test macros such as \fB_POSIX_SOURCE\fR, \fB_POSIX_C_SOURCE\fR, and
\fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR can result in compilation errors due to conflicting
requirements of standard C++ and those specifications.
.SS "POSIX"
.LP
Applications that are intended to be conforming POSIX.1 applications must
define the feature test macros specified by the standard before including any
headers.  For the standards listed below, applications must define the feature
test macros listed.  Application writers must check the corresponding standards
for other macros that can be queried to determine if desired options are
supported by the implementation.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c
l l .
\fBPOSIX Standard\fR	\fBFeature Test Macros\fR
_
POSIX.1-1990	\fB_POSIX_SOURCE\fR
_
T{
POSIX.1-1990 and POSIX.2-1992  C-Language Bindings Option
T}	\fB_POSIX_SOURCE\fR and \fB_POSIX_C_SOURCE=2\fR
POSIX.1b-1993	\fB_POSIX_C_SOURCE=199309L\fR
_
POSIX.1c-1996	\fB_POSIX_C_SOURCE=199506L\fR
_
POSIX.1-2001	\fB_POSIX_C_SOURCE=200112L\fR
.TE

.SS "SVID3"
.LP
The SVID3 specification does not specify any feature test macros to indicate
that an application is written to meet SVID3 requirements.  The SVID3
specification was written before the C standard was completed.
.SS "X/Open CAE"
.LP
To build or compile an application that conforms to one of the X/Open CAE
specifications, use the following guidelines. Applications need not set the
POSIX feature test macros if they require both CAE and POSIX functionality.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBXPG3\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The application must define \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR. If \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR is
defined with a value, the value must be less than 500.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBXPG4\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The application must define \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR and set \fB_XOPEN_VERSION=4\fR.
If \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR is defined with a value, the value must be less than
500.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSUS (XPG4v2)\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The application must define \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR and set
\fB_XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED=1\fR. If \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE\fR is defined with a value,
the value must be less than 500.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSUSv2\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The application must define \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE=500\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSUSv3\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The application must define \fB_XOPEN_SOURCE=600\fR.
.RE

.SS "Compilation"
.LP
A POSIX.1 (1988-1996)-, XPG4-, SUS-, or SUSv2-conforming implementation must
include an ANSI X3.159-1989 (ANSI C Language) standard-conforming compilation
system and the \fBcc\fR and \fBc89\fR utilities. A POSIX.1-2001- or
SUSv3-conforming implementation must include an ISO/IEC 99899:1999 (1999 ISO C
Language) standard-conforming compilation system and the \fBc99\fR utility.
Solaris 10 was tested with the \fBcc\fR, \fBc89\fR, and \fBc99\fR utilities and
the compilation environment provided by \fBSun Studio C Compiler 5.6\fR.
.sp
.LP
When \fBcc\fR is used to link applications, \fB/usr/lib/values-xpg4.o\fR must
be specified on any link/load command line, unless the application is
POSIX.1-2001- or SUSv3-conforming, in which case \fB/usr/lib/values-xpg6.o\fR
must be specified on any link/load compile line. The preferred way to build
applications, however, is described in the table below.
.sp
.LP
An XNS4- or XNS5-conforming application must include \fB-l\fR \fBXNS\fR on any
link/load command line in addition to defining the feature test macros
specified for SUS or SUSv2, respectively.
.sp
.LP
If the compiler suppports the \fBredefine_extname\fR pragma feature (the \fBSun
Studio C Compiler 5.6\fR compilers define the macro
\fB__PRAGMA_REDEFINE_EXTNAME\fR to indicate that it supports this feature),
then the standard headers use \fB#pragma\fR \fBredefine_extname\fR directives
to properly map function names onto library entry point names. This mapping
provides full support for ISO C, POSIX, and X/Open namespace reservations.
.sp
.LP
If this pragma feature is not supported by the compiler, the headers use the
\fB#define\fR directive to map internal function names onto appropriate library
entry point names. In this instance, applications should avoid using the
explicit 64-bit file offset symbols listed on the \fBlf64\fR(5) manual page,
since these names are used by the implementation to name the alternative entry
points.
.sp
.LP
When using \fBSun Studio C Compiler 5.6\fR compilers, applications conforming
to the specifications listed above should be compiled using the utilities and
flags indicated in the following table:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Specification            Compiler/Flags         Feature Test Macros
_________________________________________________________________________
1989 ANSI C and 1990 ISO C    c89                none
_________________________________________________________________________
1999 ISO C                    c99                none
_________________________________________________________________________
2011 ISO C                    c11                none
                              gcc -stdc=c11
_________________________________________________________________________
SVID3                         cc -Xt -xc99=none  none
_________________________________________________________________________
POSIX.1-1990                  c89                _POSIX_SOURCE
_________________________________________________________________________
POSIX.1-1990 and POSIX.2-1992 c89                _POSIX_SOURCE  and
  C-Language Bindings Option                     POSIX_C_SOURCE=2
_________________________________________________________________________
POSIX.1b-1993                 c89                _POSIX_C_SOURCE=199309L
_________________________________________________________________________
POSIX.1c-1996                 c89                _POSIX_C_SOURCE=199506L
_________________________________________________________________________
POSIX.1-2001                  c99                _POSIX_C_SOURCE=200112L
_________________________________________________________________________
CAE XPG3                      cc -Xa -xc99=none  _XOPEN_SOURCE
_________________________________________________________________________
CAE XPG4                      c89                _XOPEN_SOURCE and
                                                 _XOPEN_VERSION=4
_________________________________________________________________________
SUS (CAE XPG4v2)              c89                _XOPEN_SOURCE and
  (includes XNS4)                                 _XOPEN_SOURCE_EXTENDED=1
_________________________________________________________________________
SUSv2 (includes XNS5)         c89                _XOPEN_SOURCE=500
_________________________________________________________________________
SUSv3                         c99                _XOPEN_SOURCE=600
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
For platforms supporting the LP64 (64-bit) programming environment,
SUSv2-conforming LP64 applications using XNS5 library calls should be built
with command lines of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
c89 $(getconf XBS5_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS) -D_XOPEN_SOURCE=500 \e
    $(getconf XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS) foo.c -o foo \e
    $(getconf XBS5_LP64_OFF64_LIBS) -lxnet
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Similar SUSv3-conforming LP64 applications should be built with command lines
of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
c99 $(getconf POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_CFLAGS) -D_XOPEN_SOURCE=600 \e
    $(getconf POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LDFLAGS) foo.c -o foo \e
    $(getconf POSIX_V6_LP64_OFF64_LIBS) -lxnet
.fi
.in -2

.SS "SUSv3"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBc99\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
\fB_XOPEN_SOURCE=600\fR
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBcsh\fR(1), \fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBsysconf\fR(3C),
\fBsystem\fR(3C), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBlf64\fR(5)
