'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.  The Berkeley software License Agreement  specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.TH STICKY 5 "Aug 1, 2002"
.SH NAME
sticky \- mark files for special treatment
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fIsticky bit\fR (file mode bit  \fB01000\fR, see \fBchmod\fR(2)) is used
to indicate special treatment of certain files and directories. A directory for
which the sticky bit is set restricts deletion of files it contains.  A file in
a sticky directory can only be removed or renamed by a user who has write
permission on the directory, and either owns the file, owns the directory, has
write permission on the file, or is a privileged user. Setting the sticky bit
is useful for directories such as \fB/tmp\fR, which must be publicly writable
but should deny users permission to arbitrarily delete or rename the files of
others.
.sp
.LP
If the sticky bit is set on a regular file and no execute bits are set, the
system's page cache will not be used to hold the file's data. This bit is
normally set on swap files of diskless clients so that accesses to these files
do not flush more valuable data from the system's cache. Moreover, by default
such files are treated as swap files, whose inode modification times may not
necessarily be correctly recorded on permanent storage.
.sp
.LP
Any user may create a sticky directory. See \fBchmod\fR for details about
modifying file modes.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(1), \fBchmod\fR(2), \fBchown\fR(2), \fBmkdir\fR(2),
\fBrename\fR(2), \fBunlink\fR(2)
.SH BUGS
.sp
.LP
The \fBmkdir\fR(2) function will not create a directory with the sticky bit
set.
