'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2015, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\"  Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\"  You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\"  1.0 of the CDDL.
.\" 
.\"  A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\"  source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\"  http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.TH TIMERFD 5 "Feb 23, 2015"
.SH NAME
timerfd \- Linux-compatible timer notification facility
.SH SYNOPSIS

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/timerfd.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP

\fBtimerfd\fR is a Linux-borne facility for creating POSIX timers and
receiving their subsequent events via a file descriptor.
The facility itself is arguably unnecessary:
portable code can either use the timeout value present in 
\fBpoll\fR(2)/\fBport_get\fR(3C)/\fBepoll_wait\fR(3C) or -- if this
is deemed of unacceptably poor resolution -- create a POSIX timer
via \fBtimer_create\fR(3C) and use the resulting signal to induce an
\fBEINTR\fR to polling threads.  (For code that need not be
portable, the \fBSIGEV_PORT\fR signal notification allows for explicit,
event-oriented timer notification to be sent to a specified port;
see \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) for details.)
This facility therefore exists only to accommodate Linux-borne
applications and binaries; it is compatible with its Linux antecedent in both
binary interface and in semantics.

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtimerfd_create\fR(3C), \fBtimerfd_gettime\fR(3C), \fBtimerfd_settime\fR(3C)

