'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LGRP 3PERL "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
Lgrp \- Perl interface to Solaris liblgrp library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Lgrp qw(:ALL);

# initialize lgroup interface
my $cookie = lgrp_init(LGRP_VIEW_OS | LGRP_VIEW_CALLER);
my $l = Sun::Solaris::Lgrp->new(LGRP_VIEW_OS |
     LGRP_VIEW_CALLER);

my $version = lgrp_version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT | LGRP_VER_NONE);
$version = $l->version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT | LGRP_VER_NONE);

$home = lgrp_home(P_PID, P_MYID);
$home = l->home(P_PID, P_MYID);

lgrp_affinity_set(P_PID, $\fIpid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR,
      LGRP_AFF_STRONG | LGRP_AFF_WEAK | LGRP_AFF_NONE);
$l->affinity_set(P_PID, $\fIpid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR,
      LGRP_AFF_STRONG | LGRP_AFF_WEAK | LGRP_AFF_NONE);

my $affinity = lgrp_affinity_get(P_PID, $\fIpid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR);
$affinity = $l->affinity_get(P_PID, $\fIpid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR);

my $nlgrps = lgrp_nlgrps($\fIcookie\fR);
$nlgrps = $l->nlgrps();

my $root = lgrp_root($\fIcookie\fR);
$root = l->root();

$latency = lgrp_latency($\fIlgrp1\fR, $\fIlgrp2\fR);
$latency = $l->latency($\fIlgrp1\fR, $\fIlgrp2\fR);

my @children = lgrp_children($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR);
@children = l->children($lgrp);

my @parents = lgrp_parents($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR);
@parents = l->parents($\fIlgrp\fR);

my @lgrps = lgrp_lgrps($\fIcookie\fR);
@lgrps = l->lgrps();

@lgrps = lgrp_lgrps($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR);
@lgrps = l->lgrps($\fIlgrp\fR);

my @leaves = lgrp_leaves($\fIcookie\fR);
@leaves = l->leaves();

my $is_leaf = lgrp_isleaf($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR);
$is_leaf = $l->is_leaf($\fIlgrp\fR);

my @cpus = lgrp_cpus($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR,
     LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);
@cpus = l->cpus($\fIlgrp\fR, LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY |
     LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);

my $memsize = lgrp_mem_size($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR,
      LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED | LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE,
      LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);
$memsize = l->mem_size($\fIlgrp\fR,
      LGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED | LGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE,
      LGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY | LGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT);

my $is_stale = lgrp_cookie_stale($\fIcookie\fR);
$stale = l->stale();

lgrp_fini($\fIcookie\fR);

# The following is available for API version greater than 1:
my @lgrps = lgrp_resources($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR, LGRP_RSRC_CPU);

# Get latencies from cookie
$latency = lgrp_latency_cookie($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIfrom\fR, $\fIto\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This module provides access to the \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB) library and to various
constants and functions defined in <\fBsys/lgrp_sys.h\fR>. It provides both the
procedural and object interface to the library. The procedural interface
requires (in most cases) passing around a transparent cookie. The object
interface hides all the cookie manipulations from the user.
.sp
.LP
Functions returning a scalar value indicate an error by returning \fBundef\fR.
The caller can examine the \fB$!\fR variable to get the error value.
.sp
.LP
Functions returning a list value return the number of elements in the list when
called in scalar context. In the event of error, the empty list is returned in
the array context and \fBundef\fR is returned in the scalar context.
.SS "Constants"
.LP
The constants are exported with \fB:CONSTANTS\fR or \fB:ALL\fR tags:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Lgrp ':ALL';
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Lgrp ':CONSTANTS';
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The following constants are available for use in Perl programs:
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_NONE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_VER_CURRENT\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_VER_NONE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_VIEW_CALLER\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_AFF_NONE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_AFF_STRONG\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_AFF_WEAK\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_RSRC_CPU\fR (1)
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_RSRC_MEM\fR (1)
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_CONTENT_ALL\fR (1)
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM\fR (1)
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBP_PID\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBP_LWPID\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBP_MYID\fR
.in -2
.sp
.LP
(1) Available for versions of the \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB) API greater than 1.
.SS "Functions"
.LP
A detailed description of each function follows. Since this module is intended
to provide a Perl interface to the functions in \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), a very
short description is given for the corresponding functions in this module and a
reference is given to the complete description in the \fBliblgrp\fR manual
pages. Any differences or additional functionality in the Perl module are
highlighted and fully documented here.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_init([LGRP_VIEW_CALLER | LGRP_VIEW_OS])\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function initializes the lgroup interface and takes a snapshot of the
lgroup hierarchy with the given view. Given the view, \fBlgrp_init()\fR returns
a cookie representing this snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy. This cookie should
be used with other routines in the lgroup interface needing the lgroup
hierarchy. The \fBlgrp_fini()\fR function should be called with the cookie when
it is no longer needed. Unlike \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR is
assumed as the default if no view is provided.
.sp
Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_init()\fR returns a cookie. Otherwise it
returns \fBundef\fR and sets \fB$!\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_fini\fR($\fIcookie\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie, frees the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
created by \fBlgrp_init()\fR, and cleans up anything else set up by
\fBlgrp_init()\fR. After this function is called, the cookie returned by the
lgroup interface might no longer be valid and should not be used.
.sp
Upon successful completion, 1 is returned. Otherwise, \fBundef\fR is returned
and \fB$!\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_fini\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_view\fR($\fIcookie\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing the snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
and returns the snapshot's view of the lgroup hierarchy.
.sp
If the given view is \fBLGRP_VIEW_CALLER\fR, the snapshot contains only the
resources that are available to the caller (such as those with respect to
processor sets). When the view is \fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR, the snapshot contains
what is available to the operating system.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the function returns the view for the snapshot of
the lgroup hierarchy represented by the given cookie.  Otherwise, \fBundef\fR
is returned and \fB$!\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_view\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_home\fR($\fIidtype\fR, $\fIid\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the home lgroup for the given process or thread. The
$\fIidtype\fR argument should be \fBP_PID\fR to specify a process and the
$\fIid\fR argument should be its process ID. Otherwise, the $\fIidtype\fR
argument should be \fBP_LWPID\fR to specify a thread and the $\fIid\fR argument
should be its LWP ID. The value \fBP_MYID\fR can be used for the $\fIid\fR
argument to specify the current process or thread.
.sp
Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_home()\fR returns the ID of the home lgroup
of the specified process or thread. Otherwise, \fBundef\fR is returned and
\fB$!\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_home\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_cookie_stale\fR($\fIcookie\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Upon successful completion, this function returns whether the cookie is stale.
Otherwise, it returns \fBundef\fR and sets \fB$!\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
The \fBlgrp_cookie_stale()\fR function will fail with \fBEINVAL\fR if the
cookie is not valid.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_cookie_stale\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_cpus\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR, $\fIcontext\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
and returns the list of CPUs in the lgroup specified by $\fIlgrp\fR. The
$\fIcontext\fR argument should be set to one of the following values to specify
whether the direct contents or everything in this lgroup including its children
should be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
everything within this hierarchy
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
directly contained in lgroup
.RE

When called in scalar context, \fBlgrp_cpus()\fR function returns the number of
CPUs contained in the specified lgroup.
.sp
In the event of error, \fBundef\fR is returned in scalar context and \fB$!\fR
is set to indicate the error. In list context, the empty list is returned and
\fB$!\fR is set.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_cpus\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_children\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
and returns the list of lgroups that are children of the specified lgroup.
.sp
When called in scalar context, \fBlgrp_children()\fR returns the number of
children lgroups for the specified lgroup.
.sp
In the event of error, \fBundef\fR or empty list is returned and \fB$!\fR is
set to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_children\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_parents\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
and returns the list of parents of the specified lgroup.
.sp
When called in scalar context, \fBlgrp_parents()\fR returns the number of
parent lgroups for the specified lgroup.
.sp
In the event of error, \fBundef\fR or an empty list is returned and \fB$!\fR is
set to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_parents\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR($\fIcookie\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy.
It returns the number of lgroups in the hierarchy, where the number is always
at least one.
.sp
In the event of error, \fBundef\fR is returned and \fB$!\fR is set to
\fBEINVAL\fR, indicating that the cookie is not valid.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_root\fR($\fIcookie\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the root lgroup ID.
.sp
In the event of error, \fBundef\fR is returned and \fB$!\fR is set to
\fBEINVAL\fR, indicatng that the cookie is not valid.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_root\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_mem_size\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR, $\fItype\fR,
$\fIcontent\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy.
The function returns the memory size of the given lgroup in bytes. The
$\fItype\fR argument should be set to one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
free memory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
installed memory
.RE

The $\fIcontent\fR argument should be set to one of the following values to
specify whether the direct contents or everything in this lgroup including its
children should be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Return everything within this hierarchy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Return that which is directly contained in this lgroup.
.RE

The total sizes include all the memory in the lgroup including its children,
while the others reflect only the memory contained directly in the given
lgroup.
.sp
Upon successful completion, the size in bytes is returned. Otherwise,
\fBundef\fR is returned and \fB$!\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_mem_size\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_version\fR([$\fIversion\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes an interface version number, $\fIversion\fR, as an argument
and returns an lgroup interface version. The $\fIversion\fR argument should be
the value of \fBLGRP_VER_CURRENT\fR or \fBLGRP_VER_NONE\fR to find out the
current lgroup interface version on the running system.
.sp
If $\fIversion\fR is still supported by the implementation, then
\fBlgrp_version()\fR returns the requested version. If \fBLGRP_VER_NONE\fR is
returned, the implementation cannot support the requested version.
.sp
If $\fIversion\fR is \fBLGRP_VER_NONE\fR, \fBlgrp_version()\fR returns the
current version of the library.
.sp
The following example tests whether the version of the interface used by the
caller is supported:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
lgrp_version(LGRP_VER_CURRENT) == LGRP_VER_CURRENT or
    die("Built with unsupported lgroup interface");
.fi
.in -2

See \fBlgrp_version\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_affinity_set\fR($\fIidtype\fR, $\fIid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR,
$\fIaffinity\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function sets the affinity that the LWP or set of LWPs specified by
$\fIidtype\fR and $\fIid\fR have for the given lgroup. The lgroup affinity can
be set to \fBLGRP_AFF_STRONG\fR, \fBLGRP_AFF_WEAK\fR, or \fBLGRP_AFF_NONE\fR.
.sp
If the $\fIidtype\fR is \fBP_PID\fR, the affinity is retrieved for one of the
LWPs in the process or set for all the LWPs of the process with process ID
(PID) $\fIid\fR. The affinity is retrieved or set for the LWP of the current
process with LWP ID $\fIid\fR if $\fIidtype\fR is \fBP_LWPID\fR. If $\fIid\fR
is \fBP_MYID\fR, then the current LWP or process is specified.
.sp
There are different levels of affinity that can be specified by a thread for a
particuliar lgroup. The levels of affinity are the following from strongest to
weakest:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_AFF_STRONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
strong affinity
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_AFF_WEAK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
weak affinity
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_AFF_NONE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
no affinity
.RE

Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_affinity_set()\fR returns 1. Otherwise, it
returns \fBundef\fR and set \fB$!\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_affinity_set\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_affinity_get\fR($\fIidtype\fR, $\fIid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the affinity that the LWP has to a given lgroup.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_affinity_get\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_latency_cookie\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIfrom\fR, $\fIto\fR,
[$\fIbetween\fR=\fBLGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function takes a cookie representing a snapshot of the lgroup hierarchy
and returns the latency value between a hardware resource in the $\fIfrom\fR
lgroup to a hardware resource in the $\fIto\fR lgroup. If $\fIfrom\fR is the
same lgroup as $\fIto\fR, the latency value within that lgroup is returned.
.sp
The optional $\fIbetween\fR argument should be set to \fBLGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM\fR
to specify between which hardware resources the latency should be measured. The
only valid value is \fBLGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM\fR, which represents latency from
CPU to memory.
.sp
Upon successful completion, \fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR return 1.  Otherwise,
it returns \fBundef\fR and set \fB$!\fR to indicate the error. For LGRP API
version 1, the \fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR is an alias for
\fBlgrp_latency.()\fR
.sp
See \fBlgrp_latency_cookie\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_latency\fR($\fIfrom\fR, $\fIto\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function is similar to the \fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR function, but
returns the latency between the given lgroups at the given instant in time.
Since lgroups can be freed and reallocated, this function might not be able to
provide a consistent answer across calls. For that reason,
\fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR should be used in its place.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_latency\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_resources\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR, $\fItype\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the list of lgroups directly containing resources of the
specified type. The resources are represented by a set of lgroups in which each
lgroup directly contains CPU and/or memory resources.
.sp
The \fItype\fR can be specified as:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_RSRC_CPU\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
CPU resources
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLGRP_RSRC_MEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
memory resources
.RE

In the event of error, \fBundef\fR or an empty list is returned and \fB$!\fR is
set to indicate the error.
.sp
This function is available only for API version 2 and returns \fBundef\fR or an
empty list for API version 1 and sets \fB$!\fR to \fBEINVAL\fR.
.sp
See \fBlgrp_resources\fR(3LGRP) for more information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_lgrps\fR($\fIcookie\fR, [$\fIlgrp\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns a list of all lgroups in a hierarchy starting from
$\fIlgrp\fR. If $\fIlgrp\fR is not specified, uses the value of
\fBlgrp_root\fR($\fIcookie\fR).  This function returns the empty list on
failure.
.sp
When called in scalar context, this function returns the total number of
lgroups in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_leaves\fR($\fIcookie\fR, [$\fIlgrp\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns a list of all leaf lgroups in a hierarchy starting from
$\fIlgrp\fR. If $\fIlgrp\fR is not specified, this function uses the value of
\fBlgrp_root\fR($\fIcookie\fR). It returns \fBundef\fR or an empty list on
failure.
.sp
When called in scalar context, this function returns the total number of leaf
lgroups in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrp_isleaf\fR($\fIcookie\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns True if $\fIlgrp\fR is a leaf (has no children).
Otherwise it returns False.
.RE

.SS "Object methods"
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnew\fR([$\fIview\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method creates a new \fBSun::Solaris::Lgrp\fR object. An optional argument
is passed to the \fBlgrp_init()\fR function. By default this method uses
\fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcookie()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns a transparent cookie that can be passed to functions
accepting the cookie.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBversion\fR([$\fIversion\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Without the argument, this method returns the current version of the
\fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB) library. This method is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_version()\fR
with \fBLGRP_VER_NONE\fR as the default version argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstale()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns T if the lgroup information in the object is stale and F
otherwise. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_cookie_stale()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBview()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the snapshot's view of the lgroup hierarchy. It is a
wrapper for \fBlgrp_view()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBroot()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the root lgroup. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_root()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBchildren\fR($\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the list of lgroups that are children of the specified
lgroup. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_children()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBparents\fR($\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the list of lgroups that are parents of the specified
lgroup. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_parents()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnlgrps()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the number of lgroups in the hierarchy. It is a wrapper for
\fBlgrp_nlgrps()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmem_size\fR($\fIlgrp\fR, $\fItype\fR, $\fIcontent\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the memory size of the given lgroup in bytes. It is a
wrapper for \fBlgrp_mem_size()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcpus\fR($\fIlgrp\fR, $\fIcontext\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the list of CPUs in the lgroup specified by $lgrp. It is a
wrapper for \fBlgrp_cpus()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBresources\fR($\fIlgrp\fR, $\fItype\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the list of lgroups directly containing resources of the
specified type. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_resources()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhome\fR($\fIidtype\fR, $\fIid\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the home lgroup for the given process or thread. It is a
wrapper for \fBlgrp_home()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaffinity_get\fR($\fIidtype\fR, $\fIid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the affinity that the LWP has to a given lgrp. It is a
wrapper for \fBlgrp_affinity_get()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaffinity_set\fR($\fIidtype\fR, $\fIid\fR, $\fIlgrp\fR,
$\fIaffinity\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method sets the affinity that the LWP or set of LWPs specified by
$\fIidtype\fR and $\fIid\fR have for the given lgroup. It is a wrapper for
lgrp_affinity_set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlgrps\fR([$\fIlgrp\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns list of all lgroups in a hierarchy starting from
$\fIlgrp\fR or the \fBlgrp_root()\fR if $\fIlgrp\fR is not specified. It is a
wrapper for \fBlgrp_lgrps()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBleaves\fR([$\fIlgrp\fR])\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns a list of all leaf lgroups in a hierarchy starting from
$\fIlgrp\fR.  If $\fIlgrp\fR is not specified, this method uses the value of
\fBlgrp_root()\fR. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_leaves()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBisleaf\fR($\fIlgrp\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns True if $\fIlgrp\fR is leaf (has no children) and False
otherwise. It is a wrapper for \fBlgrp_isleaf()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlatency\fR($\fIfrom\fR, $\fIto\fR)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This method returns the latency value between a hardware resource in the
$\fIfrom\fR lgroup to a hardware resource in the $\fIto\fR lgroup. It uses
\fBlgrp_latency()\fR for version 1 of \fBliblgrp\fR and
\fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR for newer versions.
.RE

.SS "Exports"
.LP
By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be used
to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:LGRP_CONSTANTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
\fBLGRP_AFF_NONE\fR, \fBLGRP_AFF_STRONG\fR, \fBLGRP_AFF_WEAK\fR,
\fBLGRP_CONTENT_DIRECT\fR, \fBLGRP_CONTENT_HIERARCHY\fR,
\fBLGRP_MEM_SZ_FREE\fR, \fBLGRP_MEM_SZ_INSTALLED\fR, \fBLGRP_VER_CURRENT\fR,
\fBLGRP_VER_NONE\fR, \fBLGRP_VIEW_CALLER\fR, \fBLGRP_VIEW_OS\fR,
\fBLGRP_NONE\fR, \fBLGRP_RSRC_CPU\fR, \fBLGRP_RSRC_MEM\fR,
\fBLGRP_CONTENT_ALL\fR, \fBLGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:PROC_CONSTANTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
\fBP_PID\fR, \fBP_LWPID\fR, \fBP_MYID\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:CONSTANTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
\fB:LGRP_CONSTANTS\fR, \fB:PROC_CONSTANTS\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:FUNCTIONS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
\fBlgrp_affinity_get()\fR, \fBlgrp_affinity_set()\fR, \fBlgrp_children()\fR,
\fBlgrp_cookie_stale()\fR, \fBlgrp_cpus()\fR, \fBlgrp_fini()\fR,
\fBlgrp_home()\fR, \fBlgrp_init()\fR, \fBlgrp_latency()\fR,
\fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR, \fBlgrp_mem_size()\fR, \fBlgrp_nlgrps()\fR,
\fBlgrp_parents()\fR, \fBlgrp_root()\fR, \fBlgrp_version()\fR,
\fBlgrp_view()\fR, \fBlgrp_resources()\fR, \fBlgrp_lgrps()\fR,
\fBlgrp_leaves()\fR, \fBlgrp_isleaf()\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:ALL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
\fB:CONSTANTS\fR, \fB:FUNCTIONS\fR
.RE

.SS "Error values"
.LP
The functions in this module return \fBundef\fR or an empty list when an
underlying library function fails. The \fB$!\fR is set to provide more
information values for the error. The following error codes are possible:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value supplied is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There was not enough system memory to complete an operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The effective user of the calling process does not have appropriate privileges,
and its real or effective user ID does not match the real or effective user ID
of one of the threads.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The specified process or thread was not found.
.RE

.SS "Difference in the API versions"
.LP
The \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB) library is versioned. The exact version that was used
to compile a module is available through the \fBlgrp_version()\fR function.
.sp
.LP
Version 2 of the \fBlgrp_user\fR API introduced the following constants and
functions not present in version 1:
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_RSRC_CPU\fR constant
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_RSRC_MEM\fR constant
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_CONTENT_ALL\fR constant
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBLGRP_LAT_CPU_TO_MEM\fR constant
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBlgrp_resources()\fR function
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR function
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The \fBLGRP_RSRC_CPU\fR and \fBLGRP_RSRC_MEM\fR constants are not defined for
version 1. The \fBlgrp_resources()\fR function is defined for version 1 but
always returns an empty list. The \fBlgrp_latency_cookie()\fR function is an
alias for \fBlgrp_latency()\fR for version 1.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBlgrp_affinity_get\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_affinity_set\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_children\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_cookie_stale\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_cpus\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_fini\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_home\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_init\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_latency\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_latency_cookie\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_mem_size\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_nlgrps\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_parents\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_resources\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_root\fR(3LGRP), \fBlgrp_version\fR(3LGRP),
\fBlgrp_view\fR(3LGRP), \fBliblgrp\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
