'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TASK 3PERL "Dec 1, 2002"
.SH NAME
Task \- Perl interface to Tasks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
use Sun::Solaris::Task qw(:ALL);
my $taskid = gettaskid();
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This module provides wrappers for the \fBgettaskid\fR(2) and \fBsettaskid\fR(2)
system calls.
.SS "Constants"
.sp
.LP
\fBTASK_NORMAL\fR, \fBTASK_FINAL\fR.
.SS "Functions"
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsettaskid($project, $flags)\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fB$project\fR parameter must be a valid project ID and the \fB$flags\fR
parameter must be \fBTASK_NORMAL\fR or \fBTASK_FINAL\fR. The parameters are
passed through directly to the underlying \fBsettaskid()\fR system call. The
new task ID is returned if the call succeeds. On failure \(mi1 is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgettaskid()\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This function returns the numeric task ID of the calling process, or
\fBundef\fR if the underlying \fBgettaskid()\fR system call is unsuccessful.
.RE

.SS "Class methods"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Object methods"
.sp
.LP
None.
.SS "Exports"
.sp
.LP
By default nothing is exported from this module. The following tags can be used
to selectively import constants and functions defined in this module:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:SYSCALLS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
\fBsettaskid()\fR and \fBgettaskid()\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:CONSTANTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
\fBTASK_NORMAL\fR and \fBTASK_FINAL\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB:ALL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
\fB:SYSCALLS\fR and \fB:CONSTANTS\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgettaskid\fR(2), \fBsettaskid\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5)
