'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH _LWP_COND_SIGNAL 2 "Dec 8, 1995"
.SH NAME
_lwp_cond_signal, _lwp_cond_broadcast \- signal a condition variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/lwp.h>

\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_cond_signal\fR(\fBlwp_cond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB_lwp_cond_broadcast\fR(\fBlwp_cond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_cond_signal()\fR function unblocks one LWP that is blocked on the
LWP condition variable pointed to by \fIcvp\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_cond_broadcast()\fR function unblocks all LWPs that are blocked on
the LWP condition variable pointed to by \fIcvp\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no LWPs are blocked on the LWP condition variable, then
\fB_lwp_cond_signal()\fR and \fB_lwp_cond_broadcast()\fR have no effect.
.sp
.LP
Both functions should be called under the protection of the same LWP mutex lock
that is used with the LWP condition variable being  signaled. Otherwise, the
condition variable may be signalled between the test of the associated
condition and blocking in \fB_lwp_cond_wait()\fR. This can cause an infinite
wait.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. A non-zero value indicates an
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fB_lwp_cond_signal()\fR and \fB_lwp_cond_broadcast()\fR functions will
fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIcvp\fR argument points to an invalid LWP condition variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIcvp\fR argument points to an invalid address.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fB_lwp_cond_wait\fR(2), \fB_lwp_mutex_lock\fR(2)
