'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ALARM 2 "Jun 6, 2007"
.SH NAME
alarm \- schedule an alarm signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBunsigned int\fR \fBalarm\fR(\fBunsigned int\fR \fIseconds\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBalarm()\fR function causes the system to generate a \fBSIGALRM\fR signal
for the process after the number of real-time seconds specified by seconds
have  elapsed (see  \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD)). Processor scheduling delays may
prevent the process from handling the signal as soon as it is generated.
.sp
.LP
If \fIseconds\fR is 0, a pending alarm request, if any, is cancelled. If
\fIseconds\fR is greater than \fBLONG_MAX\fR/\fIhz\fR, \fIseconds\fR is rounded
down to \fBLONG_MAX\fR/\fIhz\fR. The value of \fIhz\fR is normally 100.
.sp
.LP
Alarm requests are not stacked; only one \fBSIGALRM\fR  generation can  be
scheduled in this manner; if the \fBSIGALRM\fR signal has not yet been
generated, the call will result in rescheduling the time at which the
\fBSIGALRM\fR signal will be generated.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfork\fR(2) function clears pending alarms in the child process. A new
process image created by one of the \fBexec\fR(2) functions inherits the time
left to an alarm signal in the old process's image.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If there is a previous alarm request with time  remaining, \fBalarm()\fR
returns  a  non-zero  value  that  is the number of seconds until the previous
request would  have  generated  a \fBSIGALRM\fR signal.  Otherwise,
\fBalarm()\fR returns 0.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBalarm()\fR function is always successful; no return value is reserved to
indicate an error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBexec\fR(2), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
