'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 Peter Tribble
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUDITON 2 "Mar 6, 2017"
.SH NAME
auditon \- manipulate auditing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lbsm\fR \fB -lsocket \fR \fB -lnsl \fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <sys/param.h>
#include <bsm/libbsm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBauditon\fR(\fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIdata\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlength\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBauditon()\fR function performs various audit subsystem control
operations. The \fIcmd\fR argument designates the particular audit control
command. The \fIdata\fR argument is a pointer to command-specific data. The
\fIlength\fR argument is the length in bytes of the command-specific data.
.sp
.LP
The following commands are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETCOND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the system audit condition in the integer pointed to by
\fIdata\fR. The following values can be returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUC_AUDITING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Audit daemon is active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUC_INIT_AUDIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Audit is ready but auditd has not run.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUC_NOAUDIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Audit daemon is not active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUC_NOSPACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Auditing has blocked due to lack of space in audit partition.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETCOND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the system's audit on/off condition to the value in the integer pointed to
by \fIdata\fR. The following audit states can be set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUC_AUDITING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Turns on audit record generation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUC_NOAUDIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Turns off audit record generation.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETCLASS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the event to class mapping for the designated audit event. The
\fIdata\fR argument points to the \fBau_evclass_map\fR structure containing the
event number. The preselection class mask is returned in the same structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETCLASS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the event class preselection mask for the designated audit event. The
\fIdata\fR argument points to the \fBau_evclass_map\fR structure containing the
event number and class mask.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETKMASK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the kernel preselection mask in the \fBau_mask\fR structure pointed to
by \fIdata\fR. This is the mask used to preselect non-attributable audit
events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETKMASK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the kernel preselection mask. The \fIdata\fR argument points to the
\fBau_mask\fR structure containing the class mask. This is the mask used to
preselect non-attributable audit events.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETPINFO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the audit ID, preselection mask, terminal ID and audit session ID of the
specified process in the \fBauditpinfo\fR structure pointed to by \fIdata\fR.
.sp
Note that \fBA_GETPINFO\fR can fail if the terminal ID contains a network
address longer than 32 bits. In this case, the \fBA_GETPINFO_ADDR\fR command
should be used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETPINFO_ADDR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Returns the audit ID, preselection mask, terminal ID and audit session ID of
the specified process in the \fBauditpinfo_addr\fR structure pointed to by
\fIdata\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETPMASK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the preselection mask of the specified process. The \fIdata\fR argument
points to the \fBauditpinfo\fR structure containing the process ID and the
preselection mask. The other fields of the structure are ignored and should be
set to \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETUMASK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the preselection mask for all processes with the specified audit ID. The
\fIdata\fR argument points to the \fBauditinfo\fR structure containing the
audit ID and the preselection mask. The other fields of the structure are
ignored and should be set to \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETSMASK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the preselection mask for all processes with the specified audit session
ID. The \fIdata\fR argument points to the \fBauditinfo\fR structure containing
the audit session \fBID\fR and the preselection mask. The other fields of the
structure are ignored and should be set to \fINULL.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETQCTRL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the kernel audit queue control parameters. These control the high and
low water marks of the number of audit records allowed in the audit queue. The
high water mark is the maximum allowed number of undelivered audit records. The
low water mark determines when threads blocked on the queue are wakened.
Another parameter controls the size of the data buffer used to write data to
the audit trail. There is also a parameter that specifies a maximum delay
before data is attempted to be written to the audit trail. The audit queue
parameters are returned in the \fBau_qctrl\fR structure pointed to by
\fIdata\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETQCTRL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the kernel audit queue control parameters as described above in the
\fBA_GETQCTRL\fR command. The \fIdata\fR argument points to the \fBau_qctrl\fR
structure containing the audit queue control parameters. The default and
maximum values 'A/B' for the audit queue control parameters are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhigh water\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fB100/10000\fR (audit records)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBlow water\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fB10/1024\fR (audit records)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBoutput buffer size\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fB1024/1048576\fR (bytes)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdelay\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fB20/20000\fR (hundredths second)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETCWD\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the current working directory as kept by the audit subsystem. This is a
path anchored on the real root, rather than on the active root. The \fIdata\fR
argument points to a buffer into which the path is copied. The \fIlength\fR
argument is the length of the buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETCAR\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the current active root as kept by the audit subsystem. This path can be
used to anchor an absolute path for a path token generated by an application.
The \fIdata\fR argument points to a buffer into which the path is copied. The
\fIlength\fR argument is the length of the buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETSTAT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the system audit statistics in the \fBaudit_stat\fR structure pointed to
by \fIdata\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETSTAT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reset system audit statistics values. The kernel statistics value is reset if
the corresponding field in the statistics structure pointed to by the
\fIdata\fR argument is \fBCLEAR_VAL\fR. Otherwise, the value is not changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_GETPOLICY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Return the audit policy flags in the integer pointed to by \fIdata\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SETPOLICY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the audit policy flags to the values in the integer pointed to by
\fIdata\fR. The following policy flags are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_CNT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not suspend processes when audit storage is full or inaccessible. The
default action is to suspend processes until storage becomes available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_AHLT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Halt the machine when a non-attributable audit record can not be delivered. The
default action is to count the number of events that could not be recorded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_ARGV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include in the audit record the argument list for a member of the \fBexec\fR(2)
family of functions. The default action is not to include this information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_ARGE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include the environment variables for the \fBexecv\fR(2) function in the audit
record. The default action is not to include this information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_SEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add a \fIsequence\fR token to each audit record. The default action is not to
include it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_TRAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Append a \fItrailer\fR token to each audit record. The default action is not to
include it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include the supplementary groups list in audit records. The default action is
not to include it.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_PATH\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include secondary paths in audit records. Examples of secondary paths are
dynamically loaded shared library modules and the command shell path for
executable scripts. The default action is to include only the primary path from
the system call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_WINDATA_DOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include in an audit record any downgraded data moved between windows. This
policy is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions.
By default, this information is not included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_WINDATA_UP\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Include in an audit record any upgraded data moved between windows. This policy
is available only if the system is configured with Trusted Extensions. By
default, this information is not included.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_PERZONE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable auditing for each local zone. If not set, audit records from all zones
are collected in a single log accessible in the global zone and certain
\fBauditconfig\fR(1M) operations are disallowed. This policy can be set only
from the global zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAUDIT_ZONENAME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generate a zone ID token with each audit record.
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBauditon()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, \(mi1
is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBauditon()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBE2BIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIlength\fR field for the command was too small to hold the returned
value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The copy of data to/from the kernel failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
One of the arguments was illegal, Audit has not been installed, or the
operation is not valid from a local zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_AUDIT\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.sp
Neither the {\fBPRIV_PROC_AUDIT\fR} nor the {\fBPRIV_SYS_AUDIT\fR} privilege is
asserted in the effective set of the calling process and the command is one of
\fBA_GETCAR\fR, \fBA_GETCLASS\fR, \fBA_GETCOND\fR, \fBA_GETCWD\fR,
\fBA_GETPINFO\fR, \fBA_GETPOLICY\fR.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.LP
The \fBauditon()\fR function can be invoked only by processes with appropriate
privileges.
.sp
.LP
The use of \fBauditon()\fR to change system audit state is permitted only in
the global zone. From any other zone \fBauditon()\fR returns \(mi1 with
\fBerrno\fR set to \fBEPERM\fR. The following \fBauditon()\fR commands are
permitted only in the global zone: \fBA_SETCOND\fR, \fBA_SETCLASS\fR,
\fBA_SETKMASK\fR, \fBA_SETQCTRL\fR, \fBA_SETSTAT\fR, \fBA_SETFSIZE\fR, and
\fBA_SETPOLICY\fR. All other \fBauditon()\fR commands are valid from any zone.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBauditconfig\fR(1M), \fBauditd\fR(1M), \fBaudit\fR(2),
\fBexec\fR(2), \fBaudit.log\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The auditon options that modify or display process-based information are not
affected by the "perzone" audit policy. Those that modify system audit data
such as the terminal ID and audit queue parameters are valid only in the global
zone unless the "perzone" policy is set. The "get" options for system audit
data reflect the local zone if "perzone" is set; otherwise they reflects the
settings of the global zone.
