'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CHDIR 2 "Dec 28, 1996"
.SH NAME
chdir, fchdir \- change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBchdir\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBfchdir\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBchdir()\fR and \fBfchdir()\fR functions cause a directory pointed to by
\fIpath\fR or \fIfildes\fR to become the current working directory.  The
starting point for path searches for path names not beginning with \fB/\fR
(slash). The \fIpath\fR argument points to the path name of a directory. The
\fIfildes\fR argument is an open file descriptor of a directory.
.sp
.LP
For a directory to become the current directory, a process must have execute
(search) access to the directory.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned, the current working directory is unchanged, and \fBerrno\fR is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBchdir()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Search permission is denied for any component of the path name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fIpath\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A signal was caught during the execution of the \fBchdir()\fR function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBELOOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \fIpath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The length of the \fIpath\fR argument exceeds \fBPATH_MAX\fR, or the length of
a \fIpath\fR component exceeds \fBNAME_MAX\fR while \fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Either a component of the path prefix or the directory named by \fIpath\fR does
not exist or is a null pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fIpath\fR argument points to a remote machine and the link to that machine
is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A component of the path name is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBfchdir()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Search permission is denied for \fIfildes\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not an open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A signal was caught during the execution of the \fBfchdir()\fR function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIfildes\fR argument points to a remote machine and the link to that
machine is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The open file descriptor \fIfildes\fR does not refer to a directory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchroot\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
