.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2024 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd January 12, 2024
.Dt EXECVEX 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm execvex
.Nd execute a file with flags
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In execx.h
.Ft int
.Fo execvex
.Fa "uintptr_t path"
.Fa "char *const argv[]"
.Fa "char *const envp[]"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an extended version of
.Xr execve 2 .
Like other functions in the
.Xr exec 2
family,
.Nm
replaces the current process image with a new one indicated by the
.Ar path
argument.
.Pp
The following values may be bitwise-ORed together in the
.Fa flags
argument to modify the behavior of the function:
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Dv EXEC_DESCRIPTOR
The
.Ar path
argument is the number of an open file descriptor in the current process.
.El
.Pp
If
.Dv EXEC_DESCRIPTOR
is not set in
.Ar flags ,
the
.Ar path
argument must be set to a pointer to a pathname of a file which is executable
by the current process.
.Pp
The
.Xr exec 2
family of functions are implemented in terms of
.Nm .
A call to
.Pp
.Dl execve(path, argv, envp) ;
.Pp
is equivalent to
.Pp
.Dl execvex((uintptr_t)path, argv, envp, 0) ;
.Pp
and a call to
.Pp
.Dl fexecve(filedes, argv, envp) ;
.Pp
is equivalent to
.Pp
.Dl execvex((uintptr_t)filedes, argv, envp, EXEC_DESCRIPTOR) ;
.Sh RETURN VALUES
If
.Nm
returns to the calling process image, an error has occurred; the return
value is \-1 and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
.Nm
will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
The flags argument is invalid.
.El
.Pp
.Nm may also fail for any of the reasons listed in
.Xr exec 2 .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr exec 2
