.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH IOCTL 2 "Feb 15, 1996"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
#include <stropts.h>

\fBint\fR \fBioctl\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrequest\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIarg\fR */ ...);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBioctl()\fR function performs a variety of control functions on devices
and streams. For non-streams files, the functions performed by this call are
device-specific control functions.  The \fIrequest\fR argument and an optional
third argument with varying type are passed to the file designated by
\fIfildes\fR and are interpreted by the device driver.
.sp
.LP
For streams files, specific functions are performed by the \fBioctl()\fR
function as described in \fBstreamio\fR(7I).
.sp
.LP
The \fIfildes\fR argument is an open file descriptor that refers to a device.
The \fIrequest\fR argument selects the control function to be performed and
depends on the device being addressed.  The \fIarg\fR argument represents a
third argument that has additional information that is needed by this specific
device to perform the requested function. The data type of \fIarg\fR depends
upon the particular control request, but it is either an \fBint\fR or a pointer
to a device-specific data structure.
.sp
.LP
In addition to device-specific and streams functions, generic functions are
provided by more than one device driver (for example, the general terminal
interface.)  See \fBtermio\fR(7I)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends upon the device control
function, but must be a non-negative integer.  Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBioctl()\fR function will fail for any type of file if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A signal was caught during the execution of the \fBioctl()\fR function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The stream or multiplexer referenced by \fIfildes\fR is linked (directly or
indirectly) downstream from a multiplexer.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBioctl()\fR function will also fail if the device driver detects an
error.  In this case, the error is passed through \fBioctl()\fR without change
to the caller. A particular driver might not have all of the following error
cases. Under the following conditions, requests to device drivers may fail and
set \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIrequest\fR argument requires a data transfer to or from a buffer pointed
to by \fIarg\fR, but \fIarg\fR points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIrequest\fR or \fIarg\fR argument is not valid for this device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Some physical I/O error has occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is on a remote machine and the link to that machine
is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not associated with a streams device that accepts
control functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIrequest\fR and \fIarg\fR arguments are valid for this device driver, but
the service requested can not be performed on this particular subdevice.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENODEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIfildes\fR argument refers to a valid streams device, but the
corresponding device driver does not support the \fBioctl()\fR function.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Streams errors are described in \fBstreamio\fR(7I).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBstreamio\fR(7I), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
