'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MINCORE 2 "Aug 12, 1990"
.SH NAME
mincore \- determine residency of memory pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmincore\fR(\fBcaddr_t\fR \fIaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIvec\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmincore()\fR function determines the residency of the memory pages in
the address space covered by mappings in the range [\fIaddr\fR, \fIaddr\fR +
\fIlen\fR]. The status is returned as a character-per-page in the character
array referenced by \fI*vec\fR (which the system assumes to be large enough to
encompass all the pages in the address range). The least significant bit of
each character is set to 1 to indicate that the referenced page is in primary
memory, and to 0 to indicate that it is not. The settings of other bits in each
character are undefined and may contain other information in future
implementations.
.sp
.LP
Because the status of a page can change between the time \fBmincore()\fR checks
and returns the information, returned information might be outdated. Only
locked pages are guaranteed to remain in memory; see \fBmlock\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBmincore()\fR returns \fB0\fR.  Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBmincore()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIvec\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIaddr\fR argument is not a multiple of the page size as returned by
\fBsysconf\fR(3C), or the  \fIlen\fR argument has a value less than or equal to
0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Addresses in the range [\fIaddr, addr + len\fR] are invalid for the address
space of a process or specify one or more pages which are not mapped.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmmap\fR(2), \fBmlock\fR(3C), \fBsysconf\fR(3C)
