'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PSET_CREATE 2 "Feb 22, 2008"
.SH NAME
pset_create, pset_destroy, pset_assign \- manage sets of processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pset.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpset_create\fR(\fBpsetid_t *\fR\fInewpset\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpset_destroy\fR(\fBpsetid_t\fR \fIpset\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpset_assign\fR(\fBpsetid_t\fR \fIpset\fR, \fBprocessorid_t\fR \fIcpu\fR, \fBpsetid_t *\fR\fIopset\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions control the creation and management of sets of processors.
Processor sets allow a subset of the system's processors to be set aside for
exclusive use by specified \fBLWP\fRs and processes. The binding of \fBLWP\fRs
and processes to processor sets is controlled by \fBpset_bind\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
The \fBpset_create()\fR function creates an empty processor set that contains
no processors.  On successful return, \fInewpset\fR will contain the \fBID\fR
of the new processor set.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpset_destroy()\fR function destroys the processor set \fIpset\fR,
releasing its constituent processors and processes. If \fIpset\fR is
\fBPS_MYID\fR, the processor set to which the caller is bound is destroyed.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpset_assign()\fR function assigns the processor \fIcpu\fR to the
processor set \fIpset\fR. A processor that has been assigned to a processor set
will run only \fBLWP\fRs and processes that have been explicitly bound to that
processor set, unless another \fBLWP\fR requires a resource that is only
available on that processor.
.sp
.LP
On successful return, if \fIopset\fR is non-null, \fIopset\fR will contain the
processor set \fBID\fR of the former processor set of the processor.
.sp
.LP
If \fIpset\fR is \fBPS_NONE\fR, \fBpset_assign()\fR releases processor
\fIcpu\fR from its current processor set.
.sp
.LP
If \fIpset\fR is \fBPS_QUERY\fR, \fBpset_assign()\fR makes no change to
processor sets, but returns the current processor set \fBID\fR of processor
\fIcpu\fR in \fIopset\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fIpset\fR is \fBPS_MYID\fR, processor \fIcpu\fR is assigned to the
processor set to which the caller belongs. If the caller does not belong to a
processor set, processor \fIcpu\fR is released from its current processor set.
.sp
.LP
These functions are restricted to privileged processes, except for
\fBpset_assign()\fR when \fIpset\fR is \fBPS_QUERY\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return \fB0\fR. Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The processor could not be moved to the specified processor set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The location pointed to by \fInewpset\fR was not writable by the user, or the
location pointed to by \fIopset\fR was not \fINULL\fR and not writable by the
user.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The specified processor does not exist, the specified processor  is not
on-line, or an invalid processor set was specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
There was insufficient space for \fBpset_create\fR to create a new processor
set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The pools facility is active. See \fBpooladm\fR(1M) and
\fBpool_set_status\fR(3POOL) for information about enabling and disabling the
pools facility.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_RES_CONFIG\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpooladm\fR(1M), \fBpsradm\fR(1M), \fBpsrinfo\fR(1M), \fBpsrset\fR(1M),
\fBp_online\fR(2), \fBprocessor_bind\fR(2), \fBpset_bind\fR(2),
\fBpset_info\fR(2), \fBpool_set_status\fR(3POOL), \fBpset_getloadavg\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The processor set type of \fBPS_SYSTEM\fR is no longer supported.
.sp
.LP
Processors with \fBLWP\fRs bound to them using \fBprocessor_bind\fR(2) cannot
be assigned to a new processor set. If  this is attempted, \fBpset_assign()\fR
will fail and set \fBerrno\fR to \fBEBUSY\fR.
