'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RENAME 2 "Oct 4, 2007"
.SH NAME
rename, renameat \- change the name of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrename\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIold\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fInew\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrenameat\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfromfd\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIold\fR, \fBint\fR \fItofd\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fInew\fR);
.fi

.SS "XPG3"
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrename\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIold\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fInew\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBrename()\fR function changes the name of a file. The \fIold\fR argument
points to the pathname of the file to be renamed. The \fInew\fR argument points
to the new path name of the file.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrenameat()\fR function renames an entry in a directory, possibly moving
the entry into a different directory.  See \fBfsattr\fR(5). If the \fIold\fR
argument is an absolute path, the \fIfromfd\fR is ignored.  Otherwise it is
resolved relative to the \fIfromfd\fR argument rather than the current working
directory.  Similarly, if the \fInew\fR argument is not absolute, it is
resolved relative to the \fItofd\fR argument.  If either \fIfromfd\fR or
\fItofd\fR have the value \fBAT_FDCWD\fR, defined in <\fBfcntl.h\fR>, and their
respective paths are relative, the path is resolved relative to the current
working directory.
.sp
.LP
Current implementation restrictions will cause the \fBrenameat()\fR function to
return an error if an attempt is made to rename an extended attribute file to a
regular (non-attribute) file, or to rename a regular file to an extended
attribute file.
.sp
.LP
If \fIold\fR and \fInew\fR both refer to the same existing file, the
\fBrename()\fR and \fBrenameat()\fR functions return successfully and performs
no other action.
.sp
.LP
If \fIold\fR points to the pathname of a file that is not a directory,
\fInew\fR must not point to the pathname of a directory. If the link named by
\fInew\fR exists, it will be removed and \fIold\fR will be renamed to
\fInew\fR. In this case, a link named \fInew\fR must remain visible to other
processes throughout the renaming operation and will refer to either the file
referred to by \fInew\fR or the file referred to as \fIold\fR before the
operation began.
.sp
.LP
If \fIold\fR points to the pathname of a directory, \fInew\fR  must not point
to the pathname of a file that is not a directory. If the directory named by
\fInew\fR exists, it will be removed and \fIold\fR will be renamed to
\fInew\fR. In this case, a link named \fInew\fR  will exist throughout the
renaming operation and will refer to either the file referred to by \fInew\fR
or the file referred to as \fIold\fR before the operation began. Thus, if
\fInew\fR names  an existing directory, it must be an empty directory.
.sp
.LP
The \fInew\fR pathname must not contain a path prefix that names \fIold\fR.
Write access permission is required for both the directory containing \fIold\fR
and the directory containing \fInew\fR. If \fIold\fR points to the  pathname of
a directory, write access permission is required for the  directory named by
\fIold\fR, and, if it exists, the directory  named by \fInew\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the directory containing \fIold\fR has the sticky bit set,  at least one of
the following conditions listed below must be true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user must own \fIold\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user must own the directory containing \fIold\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIold\fR must be writable by the user
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user must be a privileged user
.RE
.sp
.LP
If \fInew\fR exists, and the directory containing \fInew\fR is writable and has
the sticky bit set, at least  one of the following conditions must be true:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user must own \fInew\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user must own the directory containing \fInew\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fInew\fR must be writable by the user
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
the user must be a privileged user
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the link named by \fInew\fR exists, the file's link count becomes zero when
it is removed, and no process has the file open, then  the space occupied by
the file will be freed and the file will no longer be accessible. If one or
more processes have the file open when the last link is removed, the link will
be removed before \fBrename()\fR or \fBrenameat()\fR returns, but the removal
of the file contents will be postponed until all references to the file have
been closed.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBrename()\fR and \fBrenameat()\fR functions
will mark for update the \fBst_ctime\fR and \fBst_mtime\fR fields of the parent
directory of each file.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBrename()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A component of either path prefix denies search permission; one of the
directories containing \fIold\fR and \fInew\fR denies write permissions; or
write permission is denied by a directory pointed to by \fIold\fR or \fInew\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fInew\fR argument is a directory and the mount point for a mounted file
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDQUOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The directory where the new name entry is being placed cannot be extended
because the user's quota of disk blocks on that file system has been exhausted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The link named by \fInew\fR is a directory containing entries other than
`\fB\&.\fR' (the directory itself) and `\fB\&..\fR' (the parent directory).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Either \fIold\fR or \fInew\fR references an invalid address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The path argument includes non-UTF8 characters and the file system accepts only
file names where all characters are part of the UTF-8 character codeset.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fInew\fR argument directory pathname contains a path prefix that names the
\fIold\fR directory, or an attempt was made to rename a regular file to an
extended attribute or from an extended attribute to a regular file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
An I/O error occurred while making or updating a directory entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEISDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fInew\fR argument points to a directory but \fIold\fR points to a file
that is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBELOOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The length of \fIold\fR or \fInew\fR exceeds  \fBPATH_MAX\fR, or a pathname
component is longer than  \fBNAME_MAX\fR while \fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEMLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The file named by \fIold\fR is a directory, and the link count of  the parent
directory of \fInew\fR would exceed  \fBLINK_MAX\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The link named by \fIold\fR does not name an existing file, a component of the
path prefix of \fInew\fR does not exist, or either \fIold\fR or \fInew\fR
points to an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The directory that would contain \fInew\fR cannot be extended.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A component of either path prefix is not a directory, or \fIold\fR names a
directory and \fInew\fR names a file that is not a directory, or \fItofd\fR and
\fIdirfd\fR in \fBrenameat()\fR do not reference a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEROFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The requested operation requires writing in a directory on a read-only file
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEXDEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The links named by \fIold\fR and \fInew\fR are on different file systems.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBrenameat()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
An attempt was made to rename a regular file as an attribute file or to rename
an attribute file as a regular file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
_
Standard	For \fBrename()\fR, see \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBchmod\fR(2), \fBlink\fR(2), \fBunlink\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBfsattr\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The system can deadlock if there is a loop in the file system graph. Such a
loop can occur if there is an entry in directory \fBa\fR, \fBa/name1\fR, that
is a hard link to directory \fBb\fR, and an entry in directory \fBb\fR,
\fBb/name2\fR, that is a hard link to directory \fBa\fR. When such a loop
exists and two separate processes attempt to rename \fBa/name1\fR to
\fBb/name2\fR and \fBb/name2\fR to \fBa/name1\fR, the system may deadlock
attempting to lock  both directories for modification.  Use symbolic links
instead of hard links  for directories.
