'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SETREGID 2 "Mar 22, 2004"
.SH NAME
setregid \- set real and effective group IDs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetregid\fR(\fBgid_t\fR \fIrgid\fR, \fBgid_t\fR \fIegid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetregid()\fR function is used to set the real and effective group IDs
of the calling process.  If \fIrgid\fR is \(mi1, the real group ID is not
changed; if \fIegid\fR is \(mi1, the effective group ID is not changed.  The
real and effective group IDs may be set to different values in the same call.
.sp
.LP
If the {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is asserted in the effective set of
the calling process, the real group ID and the effective group ID can be set to
any legal value.
.sp
.LP
If the {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set
of the calling process, either the real group ID can be set to the saved
set-group-ID from \fBexecve\fR(2), or the effective group ID can either be set
to the saved set-group-ID or the real group ID.
.sp
.LP
In either case, if the real group ID is being changed (that is, if \fIrgid\fR
is not \(mi1), or the effective group ID is being changed to a value not equal
to the real group ID, the saved set-group-ID is set equal to the new effective
group ID.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned,
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error, and neither of the group IDs will be
changed.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetregid()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIrgid\fR or \fIegid\fR is less than 0 or greater than
\fBUID_MAX\fR (defined in <\fBlimits.h\fR>).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling processes and a change was specified other than changing the real
group \fBID\fR to the saved set-group-\fBID\fR or changing the effective group
\fBID\fR to the real group \fBID\fR or the saved group ID.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If a set-group-\fBID\fR process sets its effective group \fBID\fR to its real
group \fBID\fR, it can still set its effective group \fBID\fR back to the saved
set-group-\fBID\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBexecve\fR(2), \fBgetgid\fR(2), \fBsetreuid\fR(2), \fBsetuid\fR(2),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
