'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIGALTSTACK 2 "Nov 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
sigaltstack \- set or get signal alternate stack context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsigaltstack\fR(\fBconst stack_t *restrict\fR \fIss\fR, \fBstack_t *restrict\fR \fIoss\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsigaltstack()\fR function allows a thread to define and examine the
state of an alternate stack area on which signals are processed. If \fIss\fR is
non-zero, it specifies a pointer to and the size of a stack area on which to
deliver signals, and informs the system whether the thread is currently
executing on that stack.  When a signal's action indicates its handler should
execute on the alternate signal stack (specified with a \fBsigaction\fR(2)
call), the system checks whether the thread chosen to execute the signal
handler is currently executing on that stack. If the thread is not currently
executing on the signal stack, the system arranges a switch to the alternate
signal stack for the duration of the signal handler's execution.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBstack_t\fR structure includes the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int   *ss_sp
long  ss_size
int   ss_flags
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If \fIss\fR is not \fINULL\fR, it points to a structure specifying the
alternate signal stack that will take effect upon successful return from
\fBsigaltstack()\fR. The \fBss_sp\fR and \fBss_size\fR members specify the new
base and size of the stack, which is automatically adjusted for direction of
growth and alignment.  The \fBss_flags\fR member specifies the new stack state
and may be set to the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSS_DISABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The stack is to be disabled and \fBss_sp\fR and \fBss_size\fR are ignored. If
\fBSS_DISABLE\fR is not set, the stack will be enabled.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If \fIoss\fR is not \fINULL\fR, it points to a structure specifying the
alternate signal stack that was in effect prior to the call to
\fBsigaltstack()\fR. The \fBss_sp\fR and \fBss_size\fR members specify the base
and size of that stack.  The \fBss_flags\fR member specifies the stack's state,
and may contain the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSS_ONSTACK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The thread is currently executing on the alternate signal stack. Attempts to
modify the alternate signal stack while the thread is executing on it will
fail.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSS_DISABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The alternate signal stack is currently disabled.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is return. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsigaltstack()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIss\fR or \fIoss\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIss\fR argument is not a null pointer, and the \fBss_flags\fR member
pointed to by \fIss\fR contains flags other than \fBSS_DISABLE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The size of the alternate stack area is less than \fBMINSIGSTKSZ\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An attempt was made to modify an active stack.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetcontext\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2), \fBsigaction\fR(2),
\fBucontext.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The value \fBSIGSTKSZ\fR is defined to be the number of bytes that would be
used to cover the usual case when allocating an alternate  stack area.  The
value \fBMINSIGSTKSZ\fR is defined to be the minimum stack size for a signal
handler.  In computing an alternate stack size, a program  should add that
amount to its stack requirements to allow for the operating system overhead.
.sp
.LP
The following code fragment is typically used to allocate an alternate stack
with an adjacent red zone (an unmapped page) to guard against stack overflow,
as with default stacks:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <signal.h>
#include <sys/mman.h>

stack_t sigstk;
sigstk.ss_sp = mmap(NULL, SIGSTKSZ, PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE,
        MAP_PRIVATE | MAP_ANON, -1, 0);
if (sigstk.ss_sp == MAP_FAILED)
        /* error return */;
sigstk.ss_size = SIGSTKSZ;
sigstk.ss_flags = 0;
if (sigaltstack(&sigstk, NULL) < 0)
        perror("sigaltstack");
.fi
.in -2

