'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SIGPENDING 2 "Dec 28, 1996"
.SH NAME
sigpending \- examine signals that are blocked and pending
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsigpending\fR(\fBsigset_t *\fR\fIset\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsigpending()\fR function retrieves those signals that have been sent to
the calling process but are being blocked from delivery by the calling
process's signal mask. The signals are stored in the space pointed to by the
\fIset\fR argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsigpending()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIset\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsigaction\fR(2), \fBsigprocmask\fR(2), \fBsigsetops\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
