'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STIME 2 "Mar 22, 2004"
.SH NAME
stime \- set system time and date
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstime\fR(\fBconst time_t *\fR\fItp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstime()\fR function sets the system's idea of the time and date.  The
\fItp\fR argument points to the value of time as measured in seconds from
00:00:00 UTC January 1, 1970.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBstime()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fItp\fR argument points to an invalid (negative) value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_TIME\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of the
calling process.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtime\fR(2), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
