'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UADMIN 2 "Mar 25, 2009"
.SH NAME
uadmin \- administrative control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/uadmin.h>

\fBint\fR \fBuadmin\fR(\fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfcn\fR, \fBuintptr_t\fR \fImdep\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBuadmin()\fR function provides control for basic administrative
functions. This function is tightly coupled to the system administrative
procedures and is not intended for general use. The argument \fImdep\fR is
provided for machine-dependent use and is not defined here. It should be
initialized to \fINULL\fR if not used.
.sp
.LP
As specified by \fIcmd\fR, the following commands are available:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The system is shut down. All user processes are killed, the buffer cache is
flushed, and the root file system is unmounted. The action to be taken after
the system has been shut down is specified by \fIfcn\fR. The functions are
generic; the hardware capabilities vary on  specific machines.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_HALT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Halt the processor(s).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_POWEROFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Halt the processor(s) and turn off the power.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_BOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Reboot the system, using the kernel file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_IBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Interactive reboot; user is prompted for bootable program name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_FASTREBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Bypass BIOS and boot loader
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_REBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The system stops immediately without any further processing. The action to be
taken next is specified by \fIfcn\fR as above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_DUMP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The system is forced to panic immediately without any further processing and a
crash dump is written to the dump device (see \fBdumpadm\fR(1M)).  The action
to be taken next is specified by \fIfcn\fR, as above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_REMOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The root file system is mounted again after having been fixed. This should be
used only during the startup process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_FREEZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Suspend the whole system.  The system state is preserved in the state file. The
following subcommands, specified by \fIfcn\fR, are available.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_SUSPEND_TO_DISK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the system state to the state file. This subcommand is equivalent to ACPI
state S4.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_CHECK_SUSPEND_TO_DISK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check if your system supports suspend to disk. Without performing a system
suspend/resume, this subcommand checks if this feature is currently available
on your system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_SUSPEND_TO_RAM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the system state to memory This subcommand is equivalent to ACPI state S3.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_CHECK_SUSPEND_TO_RAM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check if your system supports suspend to memory. Without performing a system
suspend/resume, this subcommand checks if this feature is currently available
on your system.
.RE

The following subcommands, specified by \fIfcn\fR, are obsolete and might be
removed in a subsequent release:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_COMPRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Save the system state to the state file with compression of data. This
subcommand has been replaced by \fBAD_SUSPEND_TO_DISK\fR, which should be used
instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_CHECK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Check if your system supports suspend and resume.  Without performing a  system
suspend/resume, this command checks if this feature is currently available on
your system. This subcommand has been replaced by
\fBAD_CHECK_SUSPEND_TO_DISK\fR, which should be used instead.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAD_FORCE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Force \fBAD_COMPRESS\fR even when threads of user applications are not
suspendable. This subcommand should never be used, as it might result in
undefined behavior.
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the value returned depends on \fIcmd\fR as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_SHUTDOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Never returns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_REBOOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Never returns.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_FREEZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
\fB0\fR upon resume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBA_REMOUNT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
\fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBuadmin()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Suspend is already in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIcmd\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Suspend/resume ran out of physical memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Suspend/resume could not allocate enough space on the root file system to store
system information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Suspend/resume is not supported on this platform or the command specified by
\fIcmd\fR is not allowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Unable to successfully suspend system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The {\fBPRIV_SYS_CONFIG\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBA_FREEZE\fR command and its subcommands are Committed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdumpadm\fR(1M), \fBhalt\fR(1M), \fBkernel\fR(1M), \fBreboot\fR(1M),
\fBuadmin\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Shutting down or halting the system by means of \fBuadmin\fR(1M) does not
update the  boot  archive.  Avoid  using  this command after
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
editing of files such as \fB/etc/system\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
installing new driver binaries or kernel binaries
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
updating existing driver binaries or kernel binaries.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Use \fBreboot\fR(1M) or \fBhalt\fR(1M) instead.
