'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UTIME 2 "Sep 1, 2009"
.SH NAME
utime \- set file access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <utime.h>

\fBint\fR \fButime\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIpath\fR, \fBconst struct utimbuf *\fR\fItimes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fButime()\fR function sets the access and modification times of the file
pointed to by \fIpath\fR,  and causes the time of the last file status change
(\fBst_ctime\fR) to be updated.
.sp
.LP
If \fItimes\fR is \fINULL\fR, the access and modification times of the file are
set to the current time. A process must be the owner of the file or have write
permission to use \fButime()\fR in this manner.
.sp
.LP
If \fItimes\fR is not \fINULL\fR, \fItimes\fR is interpreted as a pointer to a
\fButimbuf\fR structure (defined in <\fButime.h\fR>) and the access and
modification times are set to the values contained in the designated structure.
Only the owner of the file or a process that has the {\fBPRIV_FILE_OWNER\fR}
privilege asserted in its effective set can use \fButime()\fR in this manner.
.sp
.LP
The \fButimbuf\fR structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
time_t   actime;    /* access time */
time_t   modtime;   /* modification time */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The times contained in the members of the \fButimbuf\fR structure are measured
in seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fButime()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Search permission is denied by a component of the \fIpath\fR prefix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The process does not have appropriate privileges and is not the owner of the
file, write permission is denied for the file, and \fItimes\fR is \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fIpath\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A signal was caught during the execution of the \fButime()\fR function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBELOOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \fIpath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The length of the \fIpath\fR argument exceeds \fIPATH_MAX\fR, or the length of
a \fIpath\fR component exceeds \fINAME_MAX\fR while \fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The named file does not exist or is a null pathname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOLINK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fIpath\fR argument points to a remote machine and the link to that machine
is no longer active.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A component of the \fIpath\fR prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The effective user of the calling process is not the owner of the file,
{\fBPRIV_FILE_OWNER\fR} is not asserted in the effective set of the calling
process, and \fItimes\fR is not \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEROFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The file system containing the file is mounted read-only.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfutimens\fR(2), \fBstat\fR(2), \fButimes\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBprivileges\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
