.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Joyent, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"

.TH BOOTFS 7FS "May 8, 2014"
.SH NAME
bootfs \- boot-time module file system

.SH DESCRIPTION

The
.B bootfs
file system is a read-only file system that provides access to any
boot-time modules that were passed in to the system loader which were
tagged with the type
.IR file .
.B bootfs
does not display any boot-time modules that were tagged as type
.I hash
or type
.IR rootfs .

If modules with duplicate names and paths are specified, only the first
such entry will be present in the file system and a counter will be
incremented to indicate that a duplicate entry was found, but is not
present into the file system. If a module's name only consists of
invalid characters, such as '.', '..', or '/', then the module will not
be present in the file system and a counter will be incremented to
indicate that this has occurred. In both cases, diagnostic information
is available through the kstats facility.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
.B /system/boot
.ad
.RS 8n
The mount point for the
.B bootfs
file system in the global zone.

.SH EXAMPLES

.LP
Example 1 Determining if collisions or invalid names are present
.sp
.LP
To determine if any boot-time modules were not created due to collisions
or invalid names, enter the following command:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# kstat -m bootfs
module: bootfs                          instance: 1     
name:   bootfs                          class:    fs
        crtime                          236063.651324041
        nbytes                          8749355
        ndirs                           3
        ndiscard                        0
        ndup                            0
        nfiles                          2
        snaptime                        236063.651324041
.fi
.in -2
.sp
.LP
The field
.B ndiscard
lists the number of boot-time modules that were discarded due to naming conflicts. The field
.B ndup
lists the number of duplicate entries that were found and therefore not displayed in the file system.
.sp
.LP
This information is provided for informational purposes only, it is not to be construed as a stable interface.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kstat (1M),
.BR grub (5)
