'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1999 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UDFS 7FS "Mar 29, 1999"
.SH NAME
udfs \- universal disk format file system
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBudfs\fR file system is a file system type that allows user access to
files on Universal Disk Format (UDF) disks from within the Solaris operating
environment. Once mounted,  a \fBudfs\fR file system provides standard Solaris
file system operations and semantics. That is, users can read files, write
files,  and list files in a directory on a UDF device and applications can use
standard UNIX system calls on these files and directories.
.sp
.LP
Because \fBudfs\fR is a platform-independent file system, the same media can be
written to and read from by any operating system or vendor.
.SS "Mounting File Systems"
.sp
.LP
\fBudfs\fR file systems are mounted using:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mount\fB-F\fR udfs -o rw/ro device-special
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Use:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mount /udfs
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
if the \fB/udfs\fR and device special file \fB/dev/dsk/c0t6d0s0\fR are valid
and the following line (or similar line) appears in your \fB/etc/vfstab\fR
file:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/dev/dsk/c0t6d0s0 - /udfs udfs - no ro
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBudfs\fR file system provides read-only support for ROM,  RAM,  and
sequentially-recordable media and  read-write  support on RAM media.
.sp
.LP
The \fBudfs\fR file system also supports regular files, directories, and
symbolic links, as well as device nodes such as block, character, FIFO, and
Socket.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmount\fR(1M), \fBmount_udfs\fR(1M), \fBvfstab\fR(4)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Invalid characters such as "\fINULL\fR" and "\fB/\fR" and invalid file names
such as "\fB\&.\fR" and "\fB\&..\fR" will be translated according to the
following rule:
.sp
.LP
Replace the invalid character with an "\fB_\fR," then append the file name with
\fB#\fR followed by a 4 digit hex representation of the 16-bit CRC of the
original \fBFileIdentifier\fR. For example, the file name ".." will become
"__#4C05"
