.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH UUCP 1C "Mar 9, 2005"
.SH NAME
uucp, uulog, uuname \- UNIX-to-UNIX system copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuucp\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-C\fR] [\fB-d\fR | \fB-f\fR] [\fB-g\fR\fIgrade\fR] [\fB-jmr\fR] [\fB-n\fR\fIuser\fR] [\fB-s\fR\fIfile\fR]
     [\fB-x\fR\fIdebug_level\fR] \fIsource-file\fR \fIdestination-file\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuulog\fR [\fB-s\fR\fIsys\fR] [\fB-f\fR\fIsystem\fR] [\fB-x\fR] [\fB-number\fR] \fIsystem\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuuname\fR [\fB-c\fR | \fB-l\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "uucp"
.sp
.LP
The \fBuucp\fR utility copies files named by the \fIsource-file\fR arguments to
the \fIdestination-file\fR argument.
.SS "uulog"
.sp
.LP
The \fBuulog\fR utility queries a log file of \fBuucp\fR or \fBuuxqt\fR
transactions in file \fB/var/uucp/.Log/uucico/\fIsystem\fR\fR or
\fB/var/uucp/.Log/uuxqt/\fIsystem\fR\fR.
.SS "uuname"
.sp
.LP
The \fBuuname\fR utility lists the names of systems known to \fBuucp\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS "uucp"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fBuucp\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Does not copy local file to the spool directory for transfer to the remote
machine (default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-C\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Forces the copy of local files to the spool directory for transfer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-d\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Makes all necessary directories for the file copy (default).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Does not make intermediate directories for the file copy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR \fIgrade\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
\fIgrade\fR can be either a single letter, number, or a string of alphanumeric
characters defining a service grade. The \fBuuglist\fR command can determine
whether it is appropriate to use the single letter, number, or a string of
alphanumeric characters as a service grade. The output from the \fBuuglist\fR
command is a list of service grades that are available, or a message that says
to use a single letter or number as a grade of service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-j\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Prints the \fBuucp\fR job identification string on standard output. This job
identification can be used by \fBuustat\fR to obtain the status of a \fBuucp\fR
job or to terminate a \fBuucp\fR job. The \fBuucp\fR job is valid as long as
the job remains queued on the local system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Sends mail to the requester when the copy is complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-n\fR \fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Notifies \fIuser\fR on the remote system that a file was sent.
.sp
When multiple \fB-n\fR options are passed in, \fBuucp\fR only retains the value
specified for the last \fB-n\fR option. This is the only user notified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Does not start the file transfer, just queue the job.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Reports status of the transfer to \fIfile\fR. This option is accepted for
compatibility, but it is ignored because it is insecure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR \fIdebug_level\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Produce debugging output on standard output. \fIdebug_level\fR is a number
between 0 and 9. As \fIdebug_level\fR increases to 9, more detailed debugging
information is given. This option may not be available on all systems.
.RE

.SS "uulog"
.sp
.LP
The following options cause \fBuulog\fR to print logging information:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR \fIsys\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Prints information about file transfer work involving system \fIsys\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-f\fR \fIsystem\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Executes a \fBtail\fR \fB-f\fR command of the file transfer log for
\fIsystem\fR. You must press BREAK to exit this function.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Other options used in conjunction with the above options are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-x\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Looks in the \fBuuxqt\fR log file for the given system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-\fR\fInumber\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Executes a \fBtail\fR command of \fInumber\fR lines.
.RE

.SS "uuname"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fBuuname\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-c\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the names of systems known to \fBcu\fR. The two lists are the same,
unless your machine is using different \fBSystems\fR files for \fBcu\fR and
\fBuucp\fR. See the \fBSysfiles\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-l\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Displays the local system name.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The source file name may be a path name on your machine, or may have the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIsystem-name\fR!\fIpathname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fIsystem-name\fR is taken from a list of system names that \fBuucp\fR
knows about. \fIsource_file\fR is restricted to no more than one
\fIsystem-name\fR. The destination \fIsystem-name\fR may also include a list of
system names such as
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIsystem-name\fR!\fIsystem-name\fR!...!\fIsystem-name\fR!\fIpathname\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
In this case, an attempt is made to send the file, using the specified route,
to the destination. Care should be taken to ensure that intermediate nodes in
the route are willing to forward information. See \fBNOTES\fR for restrictions.
.sp
.LP
For C-Shell users, the exclamation point (\fB!\fR) character must be surrounded
by single quotes (\fB\&'\fR), or preceded by a backslash (\fB\e\fR).
.sp
.LP
The shell metacharacters \fB?\fR, \fB*\fR and \fB[...]\fR appearing in
\fIpathname\fR are expanded on the appropriate system.
.sp
.LP
Pathnames may be one of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
An absolute pathname.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
A pathname preceded by \fB~\fR\fIuser\fR where \fIuser\fR is a login name on
the specified system and is replaced by that user's login directory.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
A pathname preceded by \fB~\fR/\fIdestination\fR where \fIdestination\fR is
appended to \fB/var/spool/uucppublic\fR. This destination is treated as a
filename unless more than one file is being transferred by this request or the
destination is already a directory. To ensure that the destination is a
directory, follow it with a forward slash (\fB/\fR). For example, \fB~/dan/\fR
as the destination creates the directory \fB/var/spool/uucppublic/dan\fR if it
does not exist and put the requested file(s) in that directory.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Anything else is prefixed by the current directory.
.sp
.LP
If the result is an erroneous path name for the remote system, the copy fails.
If the \fIdestination-file\fR is a directory, the last part of the
\fIsource-file\fR name is used.
.sp
.LP
Invoking \fBuucp\fR with shell wildcard characters as the remote
\fIsource-file\fR invokes the \fBuux\fR(1C) command to execute the \fBuucp\fR
command on the remote machine. The remote \fBuucp\fR command spools the files
on the remote machine. After the first session terminates, if the remote
machine is configured to transfer the spooled files to the local machine, the
remote machine initiates a call and send the files; otherwise, the user must
"call" the remote machine to transfer the files from the spool directory to the
local machine. This call can be done manually using \fBUutry\fR(1M), or as a
side effect of another \fBuux\fR(1C) or \fBuucp\fR call.
.sp
.LP
Notice that the local machine must have permission to execute the uucp command
on the remote machine in order for the remote machine to send the spooled
files.
.sp
.LP
\fBuucp\fR removes execute permissions across the transmission and gives
\fB0666\fR read and write permissions (see \fBchmod\fR(2)).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBuucp\fR: \fBLANG\fR, \fBLC_ALL\fR,
\fBLC_COLLATE\fR, \fBLC_CTYPE\fR, \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, \fBLC_TIME\fR,
\fBNLSPATH\fR, and \fBTZ\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
other data files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/uucp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
spool directories
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/uucp/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
other program files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/uucppublic/*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
public directory for receiving and sending
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE 	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmail\fR(1), \fBuuglist\fR(1C), \fBuustat\fR(1C), \fBuux\fR(1C),
\fBUutry\fR(1M), \fBuuxqt\fR(1M), \fBchmod\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For security reasons, the domain of remotely accessible files may be severely
restricted. You probably are not able to access files by path name. Ask a
responsible person on the remote system to send them to you. For the same
reasons you are probably not able to send files to arbitrary path names. As
distributed, the remotely accessible files are those whose names begin
\fB/var/spool/uucppublic\fR (equivalent to \fB~/\fR).
.sp
.LP
All files received by \fBuucp\fR are owned by \fBuucp\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fB-m\fR option only works when sending files or receiving a single file.
Receiving multiple files specified by special shell characters \fB?\fR,
\fB&\fR, and \fB[\|.\|.\|.\|]\fR does not activate the \fB-m\fR option.
.sp
.LP
The forwarding of files through other systems may not be compatible with the
previous version of \fBuucp\fR. If forwarding is used, all systems in the route
must have compatible versions of \fBuucp\fR.
.sp
.LP
Protected files and files that are in protected directories that are owned by
the requester can be sent by \fBuucp\fR. However, if the requester is root, and
the directory is not searchable by "other" or the file is not readable by
"other", the request fails.
.sp
.LP
Strings that are passed to remote systems may not be evaluated in the same
locale as the one in use by the process that invoked \fBuucp\fR on the local
system.
.sp
.LP
Configuration files must be treated as C (or POSIX) locale text files.
