.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH UUTO 1C "Mar 28, 1995"
.SH NAME
uuto, uupick \- public UNIX-to-UNIX system file copy
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBuuto\fR [\fB-mp\fR] \fIsource-file\fR... \fIdestination\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBuupick\fR [\fB-s\fR \fIsystem\fR]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "uuto"
.sp
.LP
\fBuuto\fR sends \fIsource-file\fR to \fIdestination\fR. \fBuuto\fR uses the
\fBuucp\fR(1C) facility to send files, while it allows the local system to
control the file access. A source-file name is a path name on your machine.
Destination has the form:
.sp
.LP
\fBsystem\fR[\fI!system\fR]\fI ... !user\fR
.sp
.LP
where \fBsystem\fR is taken from a list of system names that \fBuucp\fR knows
about.  \fIUser\fR is the login name of someone on the specified system.
.sp
.LP
The files (or sub-trees if directories are specified) are sent to \fBPUBDIR\fR
on \fBsystem\fR, where \fBPUBDIR\fR is a public directory defined in the
\fBuucp\fR source. By default, this directory is \fB/var/spool/uucppublic\fR.
Specifically the files are sent to
.sp
.LP
\fBPUBDIR/receive/\fR\fIuser\fR/\fImysystem\fR/files.
.sp
.LP
The recipient is notified by \fBmail\fR(1) of the arrival of files.
.SS "uupick"
.sp
.LP
\fBuupick\fR accepts or rejects the files transmitted to the user.
Specifically, \fBuupick\fR searches \fBPUBDIR\fR for files destined for the
user. For each entry (file or directory) found, the following message is
printed on standard output:
.sp
.LP
\fBfrom system \fR\fIsysname\fR\fB:\fR [file \fIfile-name\fR] [dir
\fBdirname\fR] \fB?\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBuupick\fR then reads a line from standard input to determine the disposition
of the file:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB<new-line>\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Go to next entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Delete the entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBm\fR [ \fIdir\fR ]\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Move the entry to named directory \fIdir.\fR If \fIdir\fR is not specified as a
complete path name (in which  \fB$\fR\fBHOME\fR is legitimate), a destination
relative to the current directory is assumed.  If no destination is given, the
default is the current directory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa\fR [ \fIdir\fR ]\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Same as \fBm\fR above, except it moves all the files sent from \fBsystem\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print the content of the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Stop.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBEOT (control-d)\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Same as \fBq\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB!\fR\fBcommand\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Escape to the shell to do \fBcommand\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Print a command summary.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "uuto"
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported by \fBuuto\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-m\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Send mail to the sender when the copy is complete.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Copy the source file into the spool directory before transmission.
.RE

.SS "uupick"
.sp
.LP
The following option is supported by \fBuupick\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB-s\fR\fI system\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Search only the \fBPUBDIR\fR for files sent from \fBsystem\fR.
.RE

.SH OPERANDS
.sp
.LP
The following operands are supported for  \fBuuto\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdestination\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A string of the form:
.sp
\fIsystem-name\fR\fB\|!\|\fR\fIuser\fR
.sp
where \fIsystem-name\fR is taken from a list of system names that \fBuucp\fR
knows about; see \fBuuname\fR. The argument \fIuser\fR is the login name of
someone on the specified system. The destination \fIsystem-name\fR can also be
a list of names such as
.sp
\fIsystem-name\fR\|\fB!\fR\|\fIsystem-name\|\fR\fB!\|\fR.\|.\|.\fB
\|!\|\fR\fIsystem-name\|\fR\fB!\fR\fI\|user\fR
.sp
in which case, an attempt is made to send the file via the specified route to
the destination. Care should be taken to ensure that intermediate nodes in the
route are willing to forward information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsource-file\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A pathname of a file on the local system to be copied to \fIdestination\fR.
.RE

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.LP
See \fBenviron\fR(5) for descriptions of the following environment variables
that affect the execution of \fBuuto\fR and \fBuupick\fR: \fBLC_TYPE\fR,
\fBLC_MESSAGES\fR, and \fBNLSPATH\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.sp
.LP
The following exit values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB>0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
An error occurred.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPUBDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fB/var/spool/uucppublic\fR public directory
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmail\fR(1), \fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBuustat\fR(1C), \fBuux\fR(1C),
\fBuucleanup\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In order to send files that begin with a dot (for instance, \fB\&.profile\fR),
the files must  be qualified with a dot.  For example, the following files are
correct:
.sp
.LP
\fB\|          .profile        .prof*       .profil?\fR
.sp
.LP
The following files are incorrect:
.sp
.LP
\fB          *prof*        ?profile\fR
