'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PICL_GET_FRUTREE_PARENT 3PICL "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
picl_get_frutree_parent \- get frutree parent node for a given device node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_frutree_parent\fR(\fBpicl_nodehdl_t\fR \fIdevh\fR,
     \fBpicl_nodehdl_t *\fR\fIfrutreeh\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The devices under the \fB/platform\fR subtree of the PICLTREE are linked to
their FRU containers represented in the \fB/frutree\fR using PICL reference
properties. The \fBpicl_get_frutree_parent()\fR function returns the handle of
the node in the \fB/frutree\fR subtree that is the FRU parent or container of
the device specified by the node handle, \fIdevh\fR. The handle is returned
in the \fIfrutreeh\fR argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise a non-negative integer is
returned to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
General system failure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_INVALIDHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Invalid handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_PROPNOTFOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Property not found
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_STALEHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Stale handle
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpicl_get_propinfo\fR(3PICL), \fBpicl_get_propval\fR(3PICL),
\fBpicl_get_propval_by_name\fR(3PICL), \fBpicl_get_prop_by_name\fR(3PICL),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
