'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PICL_GET_ROOT 3PICL "Mar 28, 2000"
.SH NAME
picl_get_root \- get the root handle of the PICL tree
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_root\fR(\fBpicl_nodehdl_t *\fR\fInodehandle\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpicl_get_root()\fR function gets the handle of the root node of the PICL
tree and copies it into the location given by \fInodehandle\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. On failure, a non-negative
integer is returned to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NOTINITIALIZED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NORESPONSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
General system failure
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpicl_initialize\fR(3PICL), \fBpicl_shutdown\fR(3PICL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
