'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PICL_GET_FIRST_PROP 3PICL "Mar 28, 2000"
.SH NAME
picl_get_first_prop, picl_get_next_prop \- get a property handle of a node
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_first_prop\fR(\fBpicl_nodehdl_t\fR \fInodeh\fR,
     \fBpiclprop_hdl_t *\fR\fIproph\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpicl_get_next_prop\fR(\fBpicl_prophdl_t\fR \fIproph\fR,
     \fBpicl_prophdl_t *\fR\fInextprop\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpicl_get_first_prop()\fR function gets the handle of the first property
of the node specified by \fInodeh\fR and copies it into the location given by
\fIproph\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpicl_get_next_prop()\fR function gets the handle of the next property
after the one specified by \fIproph\fR from the property list of the node, and
copies it into the location specified by \fInextprop\fR.
.sp
.LP
If there are no more properties, this function returns \fBPICL_ENDOFLIST\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. On failure, a non-negative
integer is returned to indicate an error.
.sp
.LP
\fBPICL_ENDOFLIST\fR is returned to indicate that there are no more properties.
.sp
.LP
\fBPICL_STALEHANDLE\fR is returned if the handle is no longer valid. This
occurs if the PICL tree was refreshed or reinitialized.
.sp
.LP
\fBPICL_INVALIDHANDLE\fR is returned if the specified handle never existed.
This error may be returned for a previously valid handle if the daemon was
brought down and restarted. When this occurs a client must revalidate any saved
handles.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NOTINITIALIZED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NORESPONSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NOTNODE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Not a node
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NOTPROP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Not a property
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_INVALIDHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Invalid handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_STALEHANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Stale handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
General system failure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_ENDOFLIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
End of list
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpicl_get_prop_by_name\fR(3PICL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
