'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PICL_WAIT 3PICL "Mar 28, 2000"
.SH NAME
picl_wait \- wait for PICL tree to refresh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lpicl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <picl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpicl_wait\fR(\fBint\fR \fIto_secs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpicl_wait()\fR function blocks the calling thread until the PICL tree is
refreshed. The \fIto_secs\fR argument specifies the timeout for the call in
number of seconds. A value of \(mi1 for \fIto_secs\fR specifies no timeout.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBpicl_wait()\fR function returns \fB0\fR to indicate that PICL tree has
refreshed. Otherwise, a non-negative integer is returned to indicate error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NOTINITIALIZED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Session not initialized
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_NORESPONSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Daemon not responding
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_TIMEDOUT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Timed out waiting for refresh
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPICL_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
General system failure
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
