'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH __FBUFSIZE 3C "Feb 5, 1998"
.SH NAME
__fbufsize, __flbf, __fpending, __fpurge, __freadable, __freading,
__fsetlocking, __fwritable, __fwriting, _flushlbf \- interfaces to stdio FILE
structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdio_ext.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fB__fbufsiz\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB__flbf\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsize_t\fR \fB__fpending\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fB__fpurge\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB__freadable\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB__freading\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB__fsetlocking\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR, \fBint\fR \fItype\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB__fwritable\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fB__fwriting\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fB_flushlbf\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions provide portable access to the members of the \fBstdio\fR(3C)
\fBFILE\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__fbufsize()\fR function returns in bytes the size of the buffer
currently in use by the given stream.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__flbf()\fR function returns non-zero if the stream is line-buffered.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__fpending\fR function returns in bytes the amount of output pending on
a stream.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__fpurge()\fR function discards any pending buffered I/O on the stream.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__freadable()\fR function returns non-zero if it is possible to read
from a stream.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__freading()\fR function returns non-zero if the file is open readonly,
or if the last operation on the stream was a read operation such as
\fBfread\fR(3C) or \fBfgetc\fR(3C). Otherwise it returns 0.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__fsetlocking()\fR function allows the type of locking performed by
\fBstdio\fR on a given stream to be controlled by the programmer.
.sp
.LP
If \fItype\fR is \fBFSETLOCKING_INTERNAL\fR, \fBstdio\fR performs implicit
locking around every operation on the given stream.  This is the default system
behavior on that stream.
.sp
.LP
If \fItype\fR is \fBFSETLOCKING_BYCALLER\fR, \fBstdio\fR assumes that the
caller is responsible for maintaining the integrity of the stream in the face
of access by multiple threads.  If there is only one thread accessing the
stream, nothing further needs to be done.  If multiple threads are accessing
the stream, then the caller can use the \fBflockfile()\fR, \fBfunlockfile()\fR,
and \fBftrylockfile()\fR functions described on the \fBflockfile\fR(3C) manual
page to provide the appropriate locking. In both this and the case where
\fItype\fR is \fBFSETLOCKING_INTERNAL\fR, \fB__fsetlocking()\fR returns the
previous state of the stream.
.sp
.LP
If \fItype\fR is \fBFSETLOCKING_QUERY\fR, \fB__fsetlocking()\fR returns the
current state of the stream without changing it.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__fwritable()\fR function returns non-zero if it is possible to write on
a stream.
.sp
.LP
The \fB__fwriting()\fR function returns non-zero if the file is open write-only
or append-only, or if the last operation on the stream was a write operation
such as \fBfwrite\fR(3C) or \fBfputc\fR(3C). Otherwise it returns 0.
.sp
.LP
The \fB_flushlbf()\fR function flushes all line-buffered files.  It is used
when reading from a line-buffered file.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Although the contents of the \fBstdio FILE\fR structure have always been
private to the \fBstdio\fR implementation, some applications have needed to
obtain information about a \fBstdio\fR stream that was not accessible through a
supported interface. These applications have resorted to accessing fields of
the \fBFILE\fR structure directly, rendering them possibly non-portable to new
implementations of \fBstdio\fR, or more likely, preventing enhancements to
\fBstdio\fR that would cause those applications to break.
.sp
.LP
In the 64-bit environment, the \fBFILE\fR structure is opaque.  The functions
described here are provided as a means of obtaining the information that up to
now has been retrieved directly from the \fBFILE\fR structure.  Because they
are based on the needs of existing applications (such as \fBmh\fR and
\fBemacs\fR), they may be extended as other programs are ported.  Although they
may still be non-portable to other operating systems, they will be compatible
from each Solaris release to the next.  Interfaces that are more portable are
under development.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	T{
\fB__fsetlocking()\fR is Unsafe; all others are MT-Safe
T}
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBflockfile\fR(3C), \fBfputc\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C),
\fBfwrite\fR(3C), \fBstdio\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
