'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ABS 3C "Jul 24, 2002"
.SH NAME
abs, labs, llabs \- return absolute value of integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBabs\fR(\fBint\fR \fIval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong\fR \fBlabs\fR(\fBlong\fR \fIlval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBllabs\fR(\fBlong long\fR \fIllval\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBabs()\fR function returns the absolute value of its \fBint\fR operand.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlabs()\fR function returns the absolute value of its \fBlong\fR operand.
.sp
.LP
The \fBllabs()\fR function returns the absolute value of its \fBlong long\fR
operand.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
In 2's-complement representation, the absolute value of the largest magnitude
negative integral value is undefined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
