'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ADDSEVERITY 3C "Dec 29, 1996"
.SH NAME
addseverity \- build a list of severity levels for an application for use with
fmtmsg
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fmtmsg.h>

\fBint\fR \fBaddseverity\fR(\fBint\fR \fIseverity\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaddseverity()\fR function builds a list of severity levels for an
application to be used with the message formatting facility \fBfmtmsg()\fR. The
\fIseverity\fR argument is an integer value indicating the seriousness of the
condition. The \fIstring\fR argument is a pointer to a string describing the
condition (string is not limited to a specific size).
.sp
.LP
If \fBaddseverity()\fR is called with an integer value that has not been
previously defined, the function adds that new severity value and print string
to the existing set of standard severity levels.
.sp
.LP
If \fBaddseverity()\fR is called with an integer value that has been previously
defined, the function redefines that value with the new print string.
Previously defined severity levels may be removed by supplying the null string.
If \fBaddseverity()\fR is called with a negative number or an integer value of
0, 1, 2, 3, or 4, the function fails and returns \fB\(mi1\fR\&. The values
0\(mi4 are reserved for the standard severity levels and cannot be modified.
Identifiers for the standard levels of severity are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_HALT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Indicates that the application has encountered a severe fault and is halting.
Produces the print string \fBHALT\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Indicates that the application has detected a fault. Produces the print string
\fBERROR\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_WARNING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Indicates a condition that is out of the ordinary, that might be a problem, and
should be watched. Produces the print string \fBWARNING\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_INFO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Provides information about a condition that is not in error. Produces the print
string \fBINFO\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMM_NOSEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Indicates that no severity level is supplied for the message.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Severity levels may also be defined at run time using the \fBSEV_LEVEL\fR
environment variable (see \fBfmtmsg\fR(3C)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBaddseverity()\fR returns \fBMM_OK\fR. Otherwise
it returns \fBMM_NOTOK\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExample of \fBaddseverity()\fR function.
.sp
.LP
When the function call

.sp
.in +2
.nf
addseverity(7,"ALERT")
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
is followed by the call

.sp
.in +2
.nf
fmtmsg(MM_PRINT, "UX:cat", 7, "invalid syntax", "refer to manual",
"UX:cat:001")
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
the resulting output is

.sp
.in +2
.nf
UX:cat: ALERT: invalid syntax
TO FIX: refer to manual   UX:cat:001
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfmtmsg\fR(1), \fBfmtmsg\fR(3C), \fBgettxt\fR(3C), \fBprintf\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
