'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AIOCANCEL 3C "Feb 5, 1997"
.SH NAME
aiocancel \- cancel an asynchronous operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/asynch.h>

\fBint\fR \fBaiocancel\fR(\fBaio_result_t *\fR\fIresultp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBaiocancel()\fR cancels the asynchronous operation associated with the result
buffer pointed to by \fIresultp\fR. It may not be possible to immediately
cancel an operation which is in progress and in this case, \fBaiocancel()\fR
will not wait to cancel it.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBaiocancel()\fR returns  \fB0\fR and the
requested operation is cancelled.  The application will not receive the
\fBSIGIO\fR completion signal for an asynchronous operation that is
successfully cancelled.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBaiocancel()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Upon failure,
\fBaiocancel()\fR returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBaiocancel()\fR will fail if any of the following are true:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The parameter \fIresultp\fR does not correspond to any outstanding asynchronous
operation, although there is at least one currently outstanding.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fIresultp\fR points to an address outside the address space of the requesting
process.  See \fBNOTES\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are not any outstanding requests to cancel.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaioread\fR(3C), \fBaiowait\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Passing an illegal address as \fIresultp\fR will result in setting \fBerrno\fR
to \fBEFAULT\fR \fIonly\fR if it is detected by the application process.
