.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd "Mar 26, 2016"
.Dt ALIGNED_ALLOC 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm aligned_alloc
.Nd aligned memory allocation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdlib.h
.Ft "void *"
.Fo aligned_alloc
.Fa "size_t alignment"
.Fa "size_t size"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn aligned_alloc
function allocates
.Fa size
bytes aligned on the specified alignment boundary
.Fa alignment .
The value of
.Fa alignment
is constrained, it must be a power of two and it must be greater than or
equal to the size of a word on the platform.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn aligned_alloc
function returns a pointer to suitably aligned memory at least
.Fa size
bytes large.
Otherwise, a
.Sy NULL
pointer is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn aligned_alloc
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOMEM
The physical limits of the system are exceeded by
.Fa size
bytes of memory which cannot be allocated.
.It Er EAGAIN
There is not enough memory available to allocate
.Fa size
bytes of memory; but the application could try again later.
.It Er EINVAL
An invalid value for
.Fa alignment
was passed in.
It is not a power of two multiple of the word size.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy STANDARD
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr malloc 3C ,
.Xr memalign 3C ,
.Xr posix_memalign 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5
