.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2018 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd August 2, 2018
.Dt BYTEORDER 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm byteorder ,
.Nm htonl ,
.Nm htonll ,
.Nm htons ,
.Nm ntohl ,
.Nm ntohll ,
.Nm ntohs
.Nd convert values between host and network byte order
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In netinet/in.h
.In inttypes.h
.Ft uint32_t
.Fo htonl
.Fa "uint32_t hostlong"
.Fc
.Ft uint64_t
.Fo htonll
.Fa "uint64_t hostlonglong"
.Fc
.Ft uint16_t
.Fo htons
.Fa "uint16_t hostshort"
.Fc
.Ft uint32_t
.Fo ntohl
.Fa "uint32_t netlong"
.Fc
.Ft uint64_t
.Fo ntohll
.Fa "uint64_t netlonglong"
.Fc
.Ft uint16_t
.Fo ntohs
.Fa "uint16_t netshort"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions convert 16-bit, 32-bit, and 64-bit quantities between network
byte order and host byte order.
On some architectures these routines are defined as
.Dv NULL
macros in the include file
.In netinet/in.h .
On other architectures, the routines are functional when the host byte order is
different from network byte order.
.Pp
These functions are most often used in conjunction with Internet addresses and
ports as returned by
.Xr gethostent 3NSL
and
.Xr getservent 3NSL .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr inet.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr gethostent 3NSL ,
.Xr getservent 3NSL ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr byteorder 5
