.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH CATGETS 3C "Mar 22, 2002"
.SH NAME
catgets \- read a program message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <nl_types.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBcatgets\fR(\fBnl_catd\fR \fIcatd\fR, \fBint\fR \fIset_num\fR, \fBint\fR \fImsg_num\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcatgets()\fR function attempts to read message \fImsg_num\fR, in set
\fIset_num\fR, from the message catalog identified by  \fIcatd\fR. The
\fIcatd\fR argument is a catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call to
\fBcatopen()\fR. The \fIs\fR argument points to a default message string which
will be returned by  \fBcatgets()\fR if the identified message catalog is not
currently available.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the identified message is retrieved successfully,  \fBcatgets()\fR returns a
pointer to an internal buffer area containing the  null terminated message
string. If the call is unsuccessful for any reason, \fBcatgets()\fR returns a
pointer to \fIs\fR and \fBerrno\fR may be set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBcatgets()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIcatd\fR argument is not a valid message catalogue descriptor open for
reading.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The number of \fB%n\fR specifiers that appear in the message string specified
by \fIs\fR does not match the number of \fB%n\fR specifiers that appear in the
message identified by \fIset_id\fR and \fImsg_id\fR in the specified message
catalog.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data
was transferred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The message catalog identified by \fIcatd\fR is corrupted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMSG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The message identified by \fIset_id\fR and \fImsg_id\fR is not in the message
catalog.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBcatgets()\fR function can be used safely in multithreaded applications
as long as \fBsetlocale\fR(3C) is not being called to change the locale.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgencat\fR(1), \fBcatclose\fR(3C), \fBcatopen\fR(3C), \fBgettext\fR(3C),
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIInternational Language Environments Guide\fR
