.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2021 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd February 25, 2021
.Dt CLOSEDIR 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm closedir
.Nd close a directory stream
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In dirent.h
.Ft int
.Fo closedir
.Fa "DIR *dirp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn closedir
function closes the directory stream referred to by the argument
.Fa dirp ,
which generally came from calling
.Xr opendir 3C
or
.Xr fdopendir 3C .
Upon return, the value of
.Fa dirp
will no longer point to an accessible object of the type
.Ft DIR .
The underlying file descriptor for the directory stream will be closed.
This includes a
.Ft DIR
created by passing a file descriptor to
.Xr fdopendir 3C .
.Pp
When the directory stream is closed, any memory that is associated with
the stream will no longer be valid.
Most notably, the dirent structures returned from
.Xr readdir 3C
use memory associated with the corresponding
.Ft "DIR *"
argument.
Each directory stream has its own independent memory.
Closing one stream does not impact the validity of other streams.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn closedir
function returns
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn closedir
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EBADF
The
.Fa dirp
argument does not refer to an open directory stream.
.It Er EINTR
The
.Fn closedir
function was interrupted by a signal.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fdopendir 3C ,
.Xr opendir 3C ,
.Xr readdir 3C ,
.Xr attributes 7
