.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH COND_INIT 3C "Jun 5, 2007"
.SH NAME
cond_init, cond_wait, cond_timedwait, cond_reltimedwait, cond_signal,
cond_broadcast, cond_destroy \- condition variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <thread.h>
#include <synch.h>

\fBint\fR \fBcond_init\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR, \fBint\fR \fItype\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcond_wait\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR, \fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcond_timedwait\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR, \fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR,
     \fBtimestruc_t *\fR\fIabstime\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcond_reltimedwait\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR, \fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR,
     \fBtimestruc_t *\fR\fIreltime\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcond_signal\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcond_broadcast\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcond_destroy\fR(\fBcond_t *\fR\fIcvp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.SS "Initialize"
.sp
.LP
Condition variables and mutexes should be global. Condition variables that are
allocated in writable memory can synchronize threads among processes if they
are shared by the cooperating processes (see \fBmmap\fR(2)) and are initialized
for this purpose.
.sp
.LP
The scope of a condition variable is either intra-process or inter-process.
This is dependent upon whether the argument is passed implicitly or explicitly
to the initialization of that condition variable. A condition variable does not
need to be explicitly initialized. A condition variable is initialized with all
zeros, by default, and its scope is set to within the calling process. For
inter-process synchronization, a condition variable must be initialized once,
and only once, before use.
.sp
.LP
A condition variable must not be simultaneously initialized by multiple threads
or re-initialized while in use by other threads.
.sp
.LP
Attributes of condition variables can be set to the default or customized at
initialization.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_init()\fR function initializes the condition variable pointed to by
\fIcvp\fR. A condition variable can have several different types of behavior,
specified by \fItype\fR. No current type uses  \fIarg\fR although a future type
may specify additional behavior parameters with \fIarg\fR. The \fItype\fR
argument c take one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The condition variable can synchronize  threads only in this process. This is
the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The condition variable can synchronize threads in this process and other
processes. Only one process should initialize the condition variable. The
object initialized with this attribute must be allocated in memory shared
between processes, either in System V shared memory (see \fBshmop\fR(2)) or in
memory mapped to a file (see \fBmmap\fR(2)). It is illegal to initialize the
object this way and to not allocate it in such shared memory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Initializing condition variables can also be accomplished by allocating in
zeroed memory, in which case, a \fItype\fR of \fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR is assumed.
.sp
.LP
If default condition variable attributes are used, statically allocated
condition variables can be initialized by the macro \fBDEFAULTCV\fR.
.sp
.LP
Default condition variable initialization (intra-process):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cond_t cvp;

cond_init(&cvp, NULL, NULL); /*initialize condition variable
                                with default*/
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cond_init(&cvp, USYNC_THREAD, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cond_t  cond  = DEFAULTCV;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Customized condition variable initialization (inter-process):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
cond_init(&cvp, USYNC_PROCESS, NULL); /* initialize cv with
                                        inter-process scope */
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Condition Wait"
.sp
.LP
The condition wait interface allows a thread to wait for a condition and
atomically release the associated mutex that it needs to hold to check the
condition. The thread waits for another thread to make the condition true and
that thread's resulting call to signal and wakeup the waiting thread.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_wait()\fR function atomically releases the mutex pointed to by
\fImp\fR and causes the calling thread to block on the condition variable
pointed to by \fIcvp\fR. The blocked thread may be awakened by
\fBcond_signal()\fR, \fBcond_broadcast()\fR, or when interrupted by delivery of
a  \fBUNIX\fR signal or a \fBfork()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_wait()\fR, \fBcond_timedwait()\fR, and \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR
functions always return with the mutex locked and owned by the calling thread
even when returning an error, except when the mutex has the \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR
attribute and has been left irrecoverable by the mutex's last owner. The
\fBcond_wait()\fR, \fBcond_timedwait()\fR, and \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR
functions return the appropriate error value if they fail to internally
reacquire the mutex.
.SS "Condition Signaling"
.sp
.LP
A condition signal allows a thread to unblock a single thread waiting on the
condition variable, whereas a condition broadcast allows a thread to unblock
all threads waiting on the condition variable.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_signal()\fR function unblocks one thread that is blocked on the
condition variable pointed to by \fIcvp\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_broadcast()\fR function unblocks all threads that are blocked on
the condition variable pointed to by \fIcvp\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no threads are blocked on the condition variable, then \fBcond_signal()\fR
and \fBcond_broadcast()\fR have no effect.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_signal()\fR or \fBcond_broadcast()\fR functions can be called by a
thread whether or not it currently owns the mutex that threads calling
\fBcond_wait()\fR, \fBcond_timedwait()\fR, or \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR have
associated with the condition variable during their waits. If, however,
predictable scheduling behavior is required, then that mutex should be locked
by the thread prior to calling \fBcond_signal()\fR or \fBcond_broadcast()\fR.
.SS "Destroy"
.sp
.LP
The condition destroy functions destroy any state, but not the space,
associated with the condition variable.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_destroy()\fR function destroys any state associated with the
condition variable pointed to by \fIcvp\fR. The space for storing the condition
variable is not freed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return \fB0\fR. Otherwise, a
non-zero value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_timedwait()\fR and \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR functions will fail
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBETIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The time specified by \fIabstime\fR or \fIreltime\fR has passed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_wait()\fR, \fBcond_timedwait()\fR, and \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR
functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Interrupted. The calling thread was awakened by the delivery of a UNIX signal.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If the mutex pointed to by \fImp\fR is a robust mutex (initialized with the
\fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR attribute), the \fBcond_wait()\fR, \fBcond_timedwait()\fR and
\fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR functions will, under the specified conditions,
return the following error values.  For complete information, see the
description of the \fBmutex_lock()\fR function on the \fBmutex_init\fR(3C)
manual page.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTRECOVERABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The mutex was protecting the state that has now been left irrecoverable. The
mutex has not been acquired.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOWNERDEAD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The last owner of the mutex died while  holding the mutex, possibly leaving the
state it was protecting inconsistent. The mutex is now owned by the caller.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIcond\fR, \fIattr\fR, \fIcvp\fR, \fIarg\fR, \fIabstime\fR, or \fImutex\fR
argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid argument. For \fBcond_init()\fR, \fItype\fR is not a recognized type.
For \fBcond_timedwait()\fR, the number of nanoseconds is greater than or equal
to 1,000,000,000.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUse \fBcond_wait()\fR in a loop to test some condition.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_wait()\fR functin is normally used in a loop testing some
condition, as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
(void) mutex_lock(mp);
while (cond == FALSE) {
     (void) cond_wait(cvp, mp);
}
(void) mutex_unlock(mp);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRUse \fBcond_timedwait()\fR in a loop to test some condition.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_timedwait()\fR function is normally used in a loop testing some
condition.  It uses an absolute timeout value as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
timestruc_t to;
\&...
(void) mutex_lock(mp);
to.tv_sec = time(NULL) + TIMEOUT;
to.tv_nsec = 0;
while (cond == FALSE) {
      err = cond_timedwait(cvp, mp, &to);
      if (err == ETIME) {
            /* timeout, do something */
            break;
      }
}
(void) mutex_unlock(mp);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRUse \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR in a loop to test some condition.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR function is normally used in a loop testing in
some condition. It uses a relative timeout value as follows:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
timestruc_t to;
\&...
(void) mutex_lock(mp);
while (cond == FALSE) {
     to.tv_sec = TIMEOUT;
     to.tv_nsec = 0;
     err = cond_reltimedwait(cvp, mp, &to);
     if (err == ETIME) {
          /* timeout, do something */
          break;
     }
}
(void) mutex_unlock(mp);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfork\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2), \fBsetitimer\fR(2), \fBshmop\fR(2),
\fBmutex_init\fR(3C), \fBsignal\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBcondition\fR(5), \fBmutex\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If more than one thread is blocked on a condition variable, the order in which
threads are unblocked is determined by the scheduling policy. When each thread,
unblocked as a result of a \fBcond_signal()\fR or \fBcond_broadcast()\fR,
returns from its call to \fBcond_wait()\fR or \fBcond_timedwait()\fR , the
thread owns the mutex with which it called \fBcond_wait()\fR,
\fBcond_timedwait()\fR, or \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR. The thread(s) that are
unblocked compete for the mutex according to the scheduling policy and as if
each had called \fBmutex_lock\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
When \fBcond_wait()\fR returns the value of the condition is indeterminate and
must be reevaluated.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcond_timedwait()\fR and \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR functions are similar
to \fBcond_wait()\fR, except that the calling thread will not wait for the
condition to become true past the absolute time specified by \fIabstime\fR or
the relative time specified by \fIreltime\fR. Note that \fBcond_timedwait()\fR
or \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR might continue to block as it trys to reacquire
the mutex pointed to by \fImp\fR, which may be locked by another thread. If
either \fBcond_timedwait()\fR or \fBcond_reltimedwait()\fR returns because of a
timeout, it returns the error value \fBETIME\fR.
