'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLDUMP 3C "Sep 7, 2015"
.SH NAME
dldump \- create a new file from a dynamic object component of the calling
process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <dlfcn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdldump\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIipath\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIopath\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdldump()\fR function creates a new dynamic object \fIopath\fR from an
existing dynamic object \fIipath\fR that is bound to the current process. An
\fIipath\fR value of \fB0\fR is interpreted as the dynamic object that started
the process. The new object is constructed from the existing objects' disc
file. Relocations can be applied to the new object to pre-bind it to other
dynamic objects, or fix the object to a specific memory location. In addition,
data elements within the new object can be obtained from the objects' memory
image as this data exists in the calling process.
.sp
.LP
These techniques allow the new object to be executed with a lower startup cost.
This reduction can be because of less relocations being required to load the
object, or because of a reduction in the data processing requirements of the
object. However, limitations can exist in using these techniques. The
application of relocations to the new dynamic object \fIopath\fR can restrict
its flexibility within a dynamically changing environment. In addition,
limitations in regards to data usage can make dumping a memory image
impractical. See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.sp
.LP
The runtime linker verifies that the dynamic object \fIipath\fR is mapped as
part of the current process. Thus, the object must either be the dynamic object
that started the process, one of the process's dependencies, or an object that
has been preloaded. See \fBexec\fR(2), and \fBld.so.1\fR(1).
.sp
.LP
As part of the runtime processing of a dynamic object, \fIrelocation\fR records
within the object are interpreted and applied to offsets within the object.
These offsets are said to be \fIrelocated\fR. Relocations can be categorized
into two basic types: \fInon-symbolic\fR and \fIsymbolic\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fInon-symbolic\fR relocation is a simple \fIrelative\fR relocation that
requires the base address at which the object is mapped to perform the
relocation. The \fIsymbolic\fR relocation requires the address of an associated
symbol, and results in a \fIbinding\fR to the dynamic object that defines this
symbol. The symbol definition can originate from any of the dynamic objects
that make up the process, that is, the object that started the process, one of
the process's dependencies, an object that has been preloaded, or the dynamic
object being relocated.
.sp
.LP
The \fIflags\fR parameter controls the relocation processing and other
attributes of producing the new dynamic object \fIopath\fR. Without any
\fIflags\fR, the new object is constructed solely from the contents of the
\fIipath\fR disc file without any relocations applied.
.sp
.LP
Various relocation flags can be \fBor\fR'ed into the \fIflags\fR parameter to
affect the relocations that are applied to the new object. \fINon-symbolic\fR
relocations can be applied using the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_RELATIVE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Relocation records from the object \fIipath\fR, that define \fIrelative\fR
relocations, are applied to the object \fIopath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
A variety of \fIsymbolic\fR relocations can be applied using the following
flags (each of these flags also implies  \fBRTLD_REL_RELATIVE\fR is in effect):
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_EXEC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Symbolic relocations that result in binding \fIipath\fR to the dynamic object
that started the process, commonly a dynamic executable, are applied to the
object \fIopath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_DEPENDS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Symbolic relocations that result in binding \fIipath\fR to any of the dynamic
dependencies of the process are applied to the object \fIopath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_PRELOAD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Symbolic relocations that result in binding \fIipath\fR to any objects
preloaded with the process are applied to the object \fIopath\fR. See
\fBLD_PRELOAD\fR in \fBld.so.1\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_SELF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Symbolic relocations that result in binding \fIipath\fR to itself, are applied
to the object \fIopath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_WEAK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Weak relocations that remain unresolved are applied to the object \fIopath\fR
as \fB0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_REL_ALL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
\fIAll\fR relocation records defined in the object \fIipath\fR are applied to
the new object \fIopath\fR. This is basically a concatenation of all the above
relocation flags.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Note that for dynamic executables, \fBRTLD_REL_RELATIVE\fR,
\fBRTLD_REL_EXEC\fR, and \fBRTLD_REL_SELF\fR have no effect. See
\fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.sp
.LP
If relocations, knowledgeable of the base address of the mapped object, are
applied to the new object \fIopath\fR, then the new object becomes fixed to the
location that the \fIipath\fR image is mapped within the current process.
.sp
.LP
Any relocations applied to the new object \fIopath\fR will have the original
relocation record removed so that the relocation will not be applied more than
once. Otherwise, the new object \fIopath\fR will retain the relocation records
as they exist in the \fIipath\fR disc file.
.sp
.LP
The following additional attributes for creating the new dynamic object
\fIopath\fR can be specified using the \fIflags\fR parameter:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_MEMORY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The new object \fIopath\fR is constructed from the current memory contents of
the \fIipath\fR image as it exists in the calling process. This option allows
data modified by the calling process to be captured in the new object. Note
that not all data modifications may be applicable for capture; significant
restrictions exist in using this technique. See \fBEXAMPLES\fR. By default,
when processing a dynamic executable, any allocated memory that follows the end
of the data segment is captured in the new object (see \fBmalloc\fR(3C) and
\fBbrk\fR(2)). This data, which represents the process heap, is saved as a new
\fI\&.SUNW_heap\fR section in the object \fIopath\fR. The objects' program
headers and symbol entries, such as \fB_end\fR, are adjusted accordingly. See
also \fBRTLD_NOHEAP.\fR When using this attribute, any relocations that have
been applied to the \fIipath\fR memory image that do not fall into one of the
requested relocation categories are undone, that is, the relocated element is
returned to the value as it existed in the \fIipath\fR disc file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_STRIP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Only collect allocatable sections within the object \fIopath\fR. Sections that
are not part of the dynamic objects' memory image are removed. \fBRTLD_STRIP\fR
reduces the size of the \fIopath\fR disc file and is comparable to having run
the new object through \fBstrip\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRTLD_NOHEAP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Do not save any heap to the new object. This option is only meaningful when
processing a dynamic executable with the \fBRTLD_MEMORY\fR attribute and allows
for reducing the size of the \fIopath\fR disc file. The executable must confine
its data initialization to data elements within its data segment, and must not
use any allocated data elements that comprise the heap.
.RE

.sp
.LP
It should be emphasized, that an object created by \fBdldump()\fR is simply an
updated \fBELF\fR object file. No additional state regarding the process at the
time \fBdldump()\fR is called is maintained in the new object. \fBdldump()\fR
does not provide a panacea for checkpoint and resume. A new dynamic executable,
for example, will not start where the original executable called
\fBdldump()\fR. It will gain control at the executable's normal entry point.
See \fBEXAMPLES\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On successful creation of the new object, \fBdldump()\fR returns \fB0\fR.
Otherwise, a non-zero value is returned and more detailed diagnostic
information is available through \fBdlerror()\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample code using \fBdldump()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following code fragment, which can be part of a dynamic executable
\fBa.out\fR, can be used to create a new shared object from one of the dynamic
executables' dependencies \fBlibfoo.so.1\fR:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
const char *	ipath = "libfoo.so.1";
const char *	opath = "./tmp/libfoo.so.1";
\&...
if (dldump(ipath, opath, RTLD_REL_RELATIVE) != 0)
        (void) printf("dldump failed: %s\en", dlerror(\|));
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The new shared object \fIopath\fR is fixed to the address of the mapped
\fIipath\fR bound to the dynamic executable \fBa.out\fR. All relative
relocations are applied to this new shared object, which will reduce its
relocation overhead when it is used as part of another process.

.sp
.LP
By performing only relative relocations, any symbolic relocation records remain
defined within the new object, and thus the dynamic binding to external symbols
will be preserved when the new object is used.

.sp
.LP
Use of the other relocation flags can fix specific relocations in the new
object and thus can reduce even more the runtime relocation startup cost of the
new object. However, this will also restrict the flexibility of using the new
object within a dynamically changing environment, as it will bind the new
object to some or all of the dynamic objects presently mapped as part of the
process.

.sp
.LP
For example, the use of \fBRTLD_REL_SELF\fR will cause any references to
symbols from \fIipath\fR to be bound to definitions within itself if no other
preceding object defined the same symbol. In other words, a call to
\fIfoo(\|)\fR within \fIipath\fR will bind to the definition \fIfoo\fR within
the same object. Therefore, \fIopath\fR will have one less binding that must be
computed at runtime. This reduces the startup cost of using \fIopath\fR by
other applications; however, interposition of the symbol \fIfoo\fR will no
longer be possible.

.sp
.LP
Using a dumped shared object with applied relocations as an applications
dependency normally requires that the application have the same dependencies as
the application that produced the dumped image. Dumping shared objects, and the
various flags associated with relocation processing, have some specialized
uses. However, the technique is intended as a building block for future
technology.

.sp
.LP
The following code fragment, which is part of the dynamic executable
\fBa.out\fR, can be used to create a new version of the dynamic executable:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
static char *       dumped = 0;
const char *        opath = "./a.out.new";
\&...
if (dumped == 0) {
        char        buffer[100];
        int         size;
        time_t      seconds;
        ...
        /* Perform data initialization */
        seconds = time((time_t *)0);
        size = cftime(buffer, (char *)0, &seconds);
        if ((dumped = (char *)malloc(size + 1)) == 0) {
                (void) printf("malloc failed: %s\en", strerror(errno));
                return (1);
        }
        (void) strcpy(dumped, buffer);
        ...
        /*
         * Tear down any undesirable data initializations and
         * dump the dynamic executables memory image.
         */
        _exithandle(\|);
        _exit(dldump(0, opath, RTLD_MEMORY));
}
(void) printf("Dumped: %s\en", dumped);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Any modifications made to the dynamic executable, up to the point the
\fBdldump()\fR call is made, are saved in the new object \fBa.out.new\fR. This
mechanism allows the executable to update parts of its data segment and heap
prior to creating the new object. In this case, the date the executable is
dumped is saved in the new object. The new object can then be executed without
having to carry out the same (presumably expensive) initialization.

.sp
.LP
For greatest flexibility, this example does not save \fIany\fR relocated
information. The elements of the dynamic executable \fIipath\fR that have been
modified by relocations at process startup, that is, references to external
functions, are returned to the values of these elements as they existed in the
\fIipath\fR disc file. This preservation of relocation records allows the new
dynamic executable to be flexible, and correctly bind and initialize to its
dependencies when executed on the same or newer upgrades of the \fBOS\fR.

.sp
.LP
Fixing relocations by applying some of the relocation flags would bind the new
object to the dependencies presently mapped as part of the process calling
\fBdldump()\fR. It may also remove necessary copy relocation processing
required for the correct initialization of its shared object dependencies.
Therefore, if the new dynamic executables' dependencies have no specialized
initialization requirements, the executable may still only interact correctly
with the dependencies to which it binds if they were mapped to the same
locations as they were when \fBdldump()\fR was called.

.sp
.LP
Note that for dynamic executables, \fBRTLD_REL_RELATIVE,\fR
\fBRTLD_REL_EXEC,\fR and \fBRTLD_REL_SELF\fR have no effect, as relocations
within the dynamic executable will have been fixed when it was created by
\fBld\fR(1).

.sp
.LP
When \fBRTLD_MEMORY\fR is used, care should be taken to insure that dumped data
sections that reference external objects are not reused without appropriate
re-initialization. For example, if a data item contains a file descriptor, a
variable returned from a shared object, or some other external data, and this
data item has been initialized prior to the \fBdldump()\fR call, its value will
have no meaning in the new dumped image.

.sp
.LP
When \fBRTLD_MEMORY\fR is used, any modification to a data item that is
initialized via a relocation whose relocation record will be retained in the
new image will effectively be lost or invalidated within the new image. For
example, if a pointer to an external object is incremented prior to the
\fBdldump()\fR call, this data item will be reset to its disc file contents so
that it can be relocated when the new image is used; hence, the previous
increment is lost.

.sp
.LP
Non-idempotent data initializations may prevent the use of \fBRTLD_MEMORY\fR.
For example, the addition of elements to a linked-list via \fBinit\fR sections
can result in the linked-list data being captured in the new image. Running
this new image may result in \fBinit\fR sections continuing to add new elements
to the list without the prerequisite initialization of the list head. It is
recommended that \fB_exithandle\fR(3C) be called before \fBdldump()\fR to tear
down any data initializations established via initialization code.  Note that
this may invalidate the calling image; thus, following the call to
\fBdldump()\fR, only a call to \fB_Exit\fR(2) should be made.

.SH USAGE
.LP
The \fBdldump()\fR function is one of a family of functions that give the user
direct access to the dynamic linking facilities. These facilities are available
to dynamically-linked processes only. See \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBld\fR(1), \fBld.so.1\fR(1), \fBstrip\fR(1), \fB_Exit\fR(2), \fBbrk\fR(2),
\fBexec\fR(2), \fB_exithandle\fR(3C), \fBdladdr\fR(3C), \fBdlclose\fR(3C),
\fBdlerror\fR(3C), \fBdlopen\fR(3C), \fBdlsym\fR(3C), \fBend\fR(3C),
\fBmalloc\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.LP
These functions are available to dynamically-linked processes only.
.sp
.LP
Any \fBNOBITS\fR sections within the \fIipath\fR are expanded to \fBPROGBITS\fR
sections within the \fIopath\fR. \fBNOBITS\fR sections occupy no space within
an \fBELF\fR file image. \fBNOBITS\fR sections declare memory that must be
created and zero-filled when the object is mapped into the runtime environment.
\fB\&.bss\fR is a typical example of this section type. \fBPROGBITS\fR
sections, on the other hand, hold information defined by the object within the
\fBELF\fR file image. This section conversion reduces the runtime
initialization cost of the new dumped object but increases the objects' disc
space requirement.
.sp
.LP
When a shared object is dumped, and relocations are applied which are
knowledgeable of the base address of the mapped object, the new object is fixed
to this new base address. The dumped object has its \fBELF\fR type reclassified
to be a dynamic executable. The dumped object can be processed by the runtime
linker, but is not valid as input to the link-editor.
.sp
.LP
If relocations are applied to the new object, any remaining relocation records
are reorganized for better locality of reference. The relocation sections are
renamed to \fB\&.SUNW_reloc\fR and the association with the section to
relocate, is lost. Only the offset of the relocation record is meaningful.
\fB\&.SUNW_reloc\fR relocations do not make the new object invalid to either
the runtime linker or link-editor, but can reduce the objects analysis with
some \fBELF\fR readers.
