'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLERROR 3C "Mar 1, 2004"
.SH NAME
dlerror \- get diagnostic information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <dlfcn.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBdlerror\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlerror()\fR function returns a null-terminated character string that
describes the last error that occurred during dynamic linking processing. The
returned string contains no trailing newline. If no dynamic linking errors have
occurred since the last invocation of \fBdlerror()\fR, \fBdlerror()\fR returns
\fINULL\fR. Thus, invoking  \fBdlerror()\fR a second time, immediately
following a prior invocation, results in \fINULL\fR being returned.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlerror()\fR function is one of a family of functions that give the user
direct access to the dynamic linking facilities. These facilities are available
to dynamically-linked processes only. See \fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBld\fR(1), \fBdladdr\fR(3C), \fBdlclose\fR(3C), \fBdldump\fR(3C),
\fBdlopen\fR(3C), \fBdlsym\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The messages returned by  \fBdlerror()\fR can reside in a static buffer that is
overwritten on each call to \fBdlerror()\fR. Application code should not write
to this buffer. Programs wanting to preserve an error message should make their
own copies of that message.
