'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DOOR_RETURN 3C "Mar 22, 2005"
.SH NAME
door_return \- return from a door invocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR \fB-mt\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <door.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdoor_return\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIdata_ptr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIdata_size\fR, \fBdoor_desc_t *\fR\fIdesc_ptr\fR,
     \fBuint_t\fR \fInum_desc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdoor_return()\fR function returns from a door invocation. It returns
control to the thread that issued the associated \fBdoor_call()\fR and blocks
waiting for the next door invocation. See \fBdoor_call\fR(3C). Results, if any,
from the door invocation are passed back to the client in the buffers pointed
to by \fIdata_ptr\fR and \fIdesc_ptr\fR. If there is not a client associated
with the \fBdoor_return()\fR, the calling thread discards the results, releases
any passed descriptors with the \fBDOOR_RELEASE\fR attribute, and blocks
waiting for the next door invocation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBdoor_return()\fR does not return to the calling
process. Otherwise, \fBdoor_return()\fR returns \fB\(mi1\fR to the calling
process and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBdoor_return()\fR function fails and returns to the calling process if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBE2BIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Arguments were too big for client.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The address of \fIdata_ptr\fR or \fIdesc_ptr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid \fBdoor_return()\fR arguments were passed or a thread is bound to a
door that no longer exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEMFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The client has too many open descriptors.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	all
_
Interface Stability	Stable
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdoor_call\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
