'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\"  Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\"  You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\"  1.0 of the CDDL.
.\" 
.\"  A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\"  source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\"  http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.TH EPOLL_CREATE 3C "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
epoll_create, epoll_create1 \- create an epoll instance
.SH SYNOPSIS

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/epoll.h>

\fBint\fR \fBepoll_create\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsize\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBepoll_create1\fR(\fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBepoll_create()\fR and \fBepoll_create1()\fR functions both create an
\fBepoll\fR(5) instance that can be operated upon via \fBepoll_ctl\fR(3C),
\fBepoll_wait\fR(3C) and \fBepoll_pwait\fR(3C).  \fBepoll\fR instances are
represented as file descriptors, and should be closed via \fBclose\fR(2).

The only difference between the two functions is their signature;
\fBepoll_create()\fR takes a size argument that
is vestigal and is only meaningful in as much as it must be greater than
zero, while \fBepoll_create1()\fR takes a flags argument that can have
any of the following values:

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBEPOLL_CLOEXEC\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Instance should be closed upon an
\fBexec\fR(2); see \fBopen\fR(2)'s description of \fBO_CLOEXEC\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1 is returned and errno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBepoll_create()\fR and \fBepoll_create1()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Either the \fIsize\fR is zero (\fBepoll_create()\fR) or the \fIflags\fR
are invalid (\fBepoll_create1()\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEMFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are currently {\fBOPEN_MAX\fR} file descriptors open in the calling
process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.
.RE

.sp
.SH NOTES
.LP

The \fBepoll\fR(5) facility is implemented for purposes of offering
compatibility for Linux-borne applications; native
applications should continue to prefer using event ports via the
\fBport_create\fR(3C), \fBport_associate\fR(3C) and \fBport_get\fR(3C)
interfaces.  See \fBepoll\fR(5) for compatibility details and restrictions.

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBepoll_ctl\fR(3C), \fBepoll_wait\fR(3C), \fBepoll\fR(5)
