.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2021 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\"
.Dd August 10, 2021
.Dt EVENTFD 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm eventfd ,
.Nm eventfd_read ,
.Nm eventfd_write
.Nd create a file descriptor for event notification
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/eventfd.h
.Ft int
.Fo eventfd
.Fa "unsigned int initval"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo eventfd_read
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "eventfd_t *valp"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo eventfd_write
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "eventfd_t val"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn eventfd
function creates an
.Xr eventfd 5
instance that has an associated 64-bit unsigned counter.
It returns a file descriptor that can be operated upon via
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2
and the facilities that notify of file descriptor activity
.Po e.g. ,
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr port_get 3C ,
.Xr epoll_wait 3C Ns
.Pc .
To dispose of the instance,
.Xr close 2
should be called on the file descriptor.
.Pp
The
.Fa initval
argument specifies the initial value of the 64-bit counter associated with the
instance.
.Po
Note that this limits the initial value to be a 32-bit quantity despite the
fact that the underlying counter is 64-bit
.Pc .
.Pp
The
.Fa flags
argument specifies additional parameters for the instance, and can have any of
the following values:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv EFD_CLOEXEC
Instance will be closed upon an
.Xr exec 2 ;
see
.Xr open 2 Ns 's
description of
.Dv O_CLOEXEC .
.It Dv EFD_NONBLOCK
Instance will be set to be non-blocking.
A
.Xr read 2
on an
.Nm eventfd
instance that has been initialized with
.Dv EFD_NONBLOCK
will return
.Er EAGAIN
in lieu of blocking if the count associated with the instance is zero.
.It Dv EFD_SEMAPHORE
Provide counting semaphore semantics whereby a
.Xr read 2
will atomically decrement rather than atomically clear the count when it
becomes non-zero.
See below for details on
.Xr read 2
semantics.
.El
.Pp
The following operations can be performed upon an
.Nm eventfd
instance:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xr read 2
Atomically reads and modifies the value of the 64-bit counter associated
with the instance.
The precise semantics of
.Xr read 2
depend on the disposition of
.Dv EFD_SEMAPHORE
with
respect to the instance: if
.Dv EFD_SEMAPHORE
was set when the instance was created,
.Xr read 2
will
.Em atomically decrement
the counter if
.Pq and when
it is non-zero, copying the value 1 to the eight byte buffer passed to the
system call; if
.Dv EFD_SEMAPHORE
was not set,
.Xr read 2
will
.Em atomically clear
the counter if
.Pq and when
it is non-zero, copying the former value of the counter to the eight byte
buffer passed to the system call.
In either case,
.Xr read 2
will block if the counter is
zero
.Po or return
.Er EAGAIN
if the instance was created with
.Dv EFD_NONBLOCK
.Pc .
If the buffer specified to
.Xr read 2
is less than
eight bytes in length,
.Er EINVAL
will be returned.
.It Xr write 2
Atomically adds the 64-bit value pointed to by the buffer to the 64-bit
counter associated with the instance.
If the resulting value would overflow, the
.Xr write 2
will block until the value would not overflow
.Po or return
.Er EAGAIN
if the instance was created with
.Dv EFD_NONBLOCK
.Pc .
If the buffer specified to
.Xr write 2
is less than eight bytes in length,
.Er EINVAL
will be returned.
.It Xo
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr port_get 3C ,
.Xr  epoll_wait 3C
.Xc
Provide notification when the 64-bit counter associated
with the instance is ready for reading or writing, as specified.
If the 64-bit value associated with the instance is non-zero,
.Dv POLLIN
and
.Dv POLLRDNORM
will be set; if the value 1 can be added the value
without blocking,
.Dv POLLOUT
and
.Dv POLLWRNORM
will be set.
.El
.Pp
.Fn eventfd_read
and
.Fn eventfd_write
are provided for compatibility with
.Sy glibc
and are wrappers around
.Xr read 2
and
.Xr write 2 ,
respectively.
They return
.Sy 0
if the correct number of bytes was transferred and
.Sy -1
otherwise.
These functions may return
.Sy -1
without setting
.Va errno .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Fn eventfd
returns a file descriptor associated with the instance.
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Pp
Upon successful completion,
.Fn eventfd_read
and
.Fn eventfd_write
return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn eventfd
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
The
.Fa flags
are invalid.
.It Er EMFILE
There are currently
.Pf { Sy OPEN_MAX Ns }
file descriptors open in the calling process.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr epoll_wait 3C ,
.Xr port_get 3C ,
.Xr eventfd 5
