.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH FCLOSE 3C "Nov 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
fclose \- close a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfclose\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function causes the stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR to be
flushed and the associated file to be closed. Any unwritten buffered data for
the stream is written to the file; any unread buffered data is discarded. The
stream is disassociated from the file. If the associated buffer was
automatically allocated, it is deallocated.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function marks for update the \fBst_ctime\fR and
\fBst_mtime\fR fields of the underlying file if the stream is writable and if
buffered data has not yet been written to the file.  It will perform a
\fBclose\fR(2) operation on the file descriptor that is associated with the
stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR.
.sp
.LP
After the call to \fBfclose()\fR, any use of \fIstream\fR causes undefined
behavior.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function is performed automatically for all open files upon
calling \fBexit\fR(2).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBfclose()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, it
returns \fBEOF\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR flag is set for the file descriptor underlying
\fIstream\fR and the process would be delayed in the write operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The file descriptor underlying stream is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFBIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An attempt was made to write a file that exceeds the maximum file size or the
process's file size limit; or the file is a regular file and an attempt was
made to write at or beyond the offset maximum associated with the corresponding
stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fBfclose()\fR function was interrupted by a signal.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The process is a member of a background process group attempting to write to
its controlling terminal, \fBTOSTOP\fR is set, the process is neither ignoring
nor blocking \fBSIGTTOU\fR and the process group of the process is orphaned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There was no free space remaining on the device containing the file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPIPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An attempt is made to write to a pipe or \fBFIFO\fR that is not open for
reading by any process. A \fBSIGPIPE\fR signal will also be sent to the calling
thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBfclose()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
A request was made of a non-existent device, or the request was beyond the
limits of the device.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBclose\fR(2), \fBexit\fR(2), \fBgetrlimit\fR(2), \fBulimit\fR(2),
\fBfcloseall\fR(3C), \fBfopen\fR(3C), \fBstdio\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
