.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2025, Hans Rosenfeld
.\"
.Dd "April 25, 2024"
.Dt FDCLOSE 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fdclose
.Nd close a standard I/O stream without closing the underlying file descriptor
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdio.h
.Ft int
.Fo fdclose
.Fa "FILE *stream"
.Fa "int *fdp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn fdclose
function is equivalent to
.Xr fclose 3C ,
closing the given standard I/O stream, except that it does not close the
underlying file descriptor.
.Pp
If
.Fa fdp
is not
.Dv NULL ,
it will be used to return the underlying file descriptor of the I/O stream.
If the stream does not have an underlying file descriptor associated with it,
.Fa fdp
will be set to
.Sy -1 .
This is always done, regardless of any error returned by
.Fn fdclose .
.Pp
If
.Fa fdp
is
.Dv NULL ,
no file descriptor will be returned.
Note that regardless of the value passed for
.Fa fdp ,
the I/O stream will be closed without closing the underlying file descriptor.
Usually callers who pass
.Dv NULL
for
.Fa fdp
already have the file descriptor's value available.
.Pp
The equivalent of
.Xr fflush 3C
is called on the stream before closing, thus any buffered or pending
input is discarded while any buffered or pending output is written out
to the underlying file.
This includes the standard streams,
.Va stdin ,
.Va stdout ,
and
.Va stderr .
.Pp
After the call to
.Fn fdclose ,
any use of
.Fa stream
causes undefined
behavior.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn fdclose
function returns 0.
Otherwise,
.Dv EOF
is returned
and the global variable
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn fdclose
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOTSUP
The stream does not have an associated file descriptor.
The stream was closed nonetheless, and if
.Fa fdp
was not
.Dv NULL ,
it will have been set to -1.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn fdclose
function may also fail and set
.Va errno
for any of the errors specified in
.Xr fflush 3C .
.Pp
Even in the case of an error returned by
.Fn fdclose ,
.Fa stream
should be considered closed.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Mt-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fclose 3C ,
.Xr fflush 3C ,
.Xr attributes 7
