'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FGETWC 3C "Jun 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
fgetwc, fgetwc_l \- get a wide-character code from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBfgetwc\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBfgetwc_l\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR, \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR and \fBfgetwc_l()\fR functions obtain the next
character (if present) from the input stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR,
convert that to the corresponding wide-character code and advance the
associated file position indicator for the stream (if defined).
Whereas \fBfgetwc()\fR uses the current locale, \fBfgetwc_l()\fR uses the
locale specified by \fIloc\fR.
.LP
If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for the
stream is indeterminate.
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR and \fBfgetwc_l()\fR functions may mark the \fBst_atime\fR
field of the file
associated with \fIstream\fR for update. The \fBst_atime\fR field will be
marked for update by the first successful execution of \fBfgetwc()\fR,
\fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBfgets\fR(3C), \fBfgetws\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C),
\fBfscanf\fR(3C), \fBgetc\fR(3C), \fBgetchar\fR(3C), \fBgets\fR(3C), or
\fBscanf\fR(3C) using \fIstream\fR that returns data not supplied by a prior
call to \fBungetc\fR(3C) or \fBungetwc\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion both functions return the
wide-character code of the character read from the input stream pointed to by
\fIstream\fR converted to a type \fBwint_t\fR.
.LP
For standard-conforming (see \fBstandards\fR(5)) applications, if the
end-of-file indicator for the stream is set, \fBfgetwc()\fR and
\fBfgetwc_l()\fR return \fBWEOF\fR whether or not the stream is at
end-of-file.
.LP
If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the stream is set,
\fBfgetwc()\fR and \fBfgetwc_l()\fR returns \fBWEOF\fR and sets
\fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.LP
If an encoding error occurs, the error indicator for the stream is set,
\fBfgetwc()\fR and \fBfgetwc_l()\fR return \fBWEOF\fR, and \fBerrno\fR is
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR and \fBfgetwc_l()\fR functions will fail if data needs to be
read and:
.TP
.B EAGAIN
The \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR flag is set for the file descriptor underlying
\fIstream\fR and the process would be delayed in the \fBfgetwc()\fR or
\fBfgetwc_l()\fR operation.
.TP
.B EBADF
The file descriptor underlying \fIstream\fR is not a valid file descriptor open
for reading.
.TP
.B EINTR
The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and no data
was transferred.
.TP
.B EIO
A physical I/O error has occurred, or the process is in a background process
group attempting to read from its controlling terminal and either the process
is ignoring or blocking the \fBSIGTTIN\fR signal or the process group is
orphaned.
.TP
.B EOVERFLOW
The file is a regular file and an attempt was made to read at or beyond the
offset maximum associated with the corresponding  \fIstream\fR.
.LP
The \fBfgetwc()\fR and \fBfgetwc_l()\fR functions may fail if:
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory is available.
.TP
.B ENXIO
A request was made of a non-existent device, or the request was outside the
capabilities of the device.
.TP
.B EILSEQ
The data obtained from the input stream does not form a valid character.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBferror\fR(3C) or \fBfeof\fR(3C) functions must be used to distinguish
between an error condition and an end-of-file condition.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.LP
The
.B fgetwc()
function is Standard.  The
.B fgetwc_l()
function is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBfeof\fR(3C), \fBferror\fR(3C), \fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBfgets\fR(3C),
\fBfgetws\fR(3C), \fBfopen\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C), \fBfscanf\fR(3C),
\fBgetc\fR(3C), \fBgetchar\fR(3C), \fBgets\fR(3C), \fBscanf\fR(3C),
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBungetc\fR(3C), \fBungetwc\fR(3C),
\fBuselocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
