'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FGETATTR 3C "Nov 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
fgetattr, fsetattr, getattrat, setattrat \- get and set system attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <attr.h>
#include <sys/nvpair.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfgetattr\fR(\fBint\fR fildes, \fBxattr_view_t\fR view,\fBnvlist_t **\fRresponse);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBfsetattr\fR(\fBint\fR fildes, \fBxattr_view_t\fR view,\fBnvlist_t *\fRrequest)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBgetattrat\fR(\fBint\fR fildes, \fBxattr_view_t\fR view, \fBconst char *\fRfilename,
     \fBnvlist_t **\fRresponse);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsetattrat\fR(\fBint\fR fildes, \fBxattr_view_t\fR view, \fBconst char *\fRfilename,
     \fBnvlist_t *\fRrequest);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBfgetattr()\fR function obtains an nvlist of system attribute information
about an open file object specified by the file descriptor \fIfildes\fR,
obtained from a successful \fBopen\fR(2), \fBcreat\fR(2), \fBdup\fR(2),
\fBfcntl\fR(2), or \fBpipe\fR(2) function.
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetattrat()\fR function first opens the extended attribute file
specified by \fIfilename\fR in the already opened file directory object
specified by \fIfildes\fR. It then retrieves an nvlist of system attributes and
their values from \fIfilename\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fIresponse\fR argument is allocated by either \fBfgetattr()\fR or
\fBgetattrat()\fR. The application must call \fBnvlist_free\fR(3NVPAIR) to
deallocate the memory.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the nvlist will contain one nvpair for each of the
system attributes associated with \fIview\fR.  The list of views and the
attributes associated with each view are listed below.  Not all underlying file
systems support all views and all attributes. The nvlist will not contain an
nvpair for any attribute not supported by the underlying filesystem.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfsetattr()\fR function uses the nvlist pointed to by \fIrequest\fR to
update one or more of the system attribute's information about an open file
object specified by the file descriptor \fIfildes\fR, obtained from a
successful \fBopen()\fR, \fBcreat()\fR, \fBdup()\fR, \fBfcntl()\fR, or
\fBpipe()\fR function. The \fBsetattrat()\fR function first opens the extended
attribute file specified by \fIfilename\fR in the already opened file directory
object specified by \fIfildes\fR. It then uses the nvlist pointed to by
\fIrequest\fR to update one or more of the system attributes of filename.
.sp
.LP
If completion is not successful then no system attribute information is
updated.
.sp
.LP
The following chart lists the supported views, attributes, and  data types for
each view:
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
View	Attribute	Data type
_
\fBXATTR_VIEW_READONLY\fR	\fBA_FSID\fR	\fBuint64_value\fR
	\fBA_OPAQUE\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_AV_SCANSTAMP\fR	\fBuint8_array[]\fR
\fBXATTR_VIEW_READWRITE\fR	\fBA_READONLY\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_HIDDEN\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_SYSTEM\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_ARCHIVE\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_CRTIME\fR	\fBuint64_array\fR[2]
	\fBA_NOUNLINK\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_IMMUTABLE\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_APPENDONLY\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_NODUMP\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_AV_QUARANTINED\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_AV_MODIFIED\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_OWNERSID\fR	T{
nvlist composed of \fBuint32_value\fR and \fBstring\fR
T}
	\fBA_GROUPSID\fR	T{
nvlist composed of \fBuint32_value\fR and \fBstring\fR
T}
	\fBA_OFFLINE\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
	\fBA_SPARSE\fR	\fBboolean_value\fR
.TE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1  is returned and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBfgetattr()\fR, \fBgetattrat()\fR, \fBfsetattr()\fR, and
\fBsetattrat()\fR, functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The underlying file system does not support extended file attributes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An error occurred while reading from the file system.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetattrat()\fR and \fBsetattrat()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Search permission or write permission for \fIfilename\fR is denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfilename\fR argument does not name an existing file in the extended
attribute directory represented by \fIfildes\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are insufficient privileges to manipulate attributes.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRObtain an nvlist of readonly system attributes for an open file
object.
.sp
.LP
Use \fBfgetattr()\fR to obtain an nvlist of the readonly system attributes for
the open file object represented by file descriptor \fIfildes\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <attr.h>
#include <sys/nvpair.h>

nvlist_t *response;
nvpair_t *pair = NULL;

if (fgetattr(fildes, XATTR_VIEW_READONLY, &response)) {
             exit(1);
}
while (pair = nvlist_next_nvpair(response, pair)) {
    .
    .
    .
}
nvlist_free(response);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSet the \fBA_READONLY\fR system attribute on an open file
object.
.sp
.LP
Use \fBfsetattr()\fR to set the \fBA_OPAQUE\fR system attribute on the open
file object represented by file descriptor \fIfildes\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
nvlist_t *request;
nvpair_t *pair = NULL;

if (nvlist_alloc(&request, NV_UNIQUE_NAME, 0) != 0) {
            exit(1);
}
if (nvlist_add_boolean_value(request, A_READONLY, 1) != 0) {
            exit(1);
}
if (fsetattr(fildes, XATTR_VIEW_READWRITE, request)) {
            exit(1);
}
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRObtain an nvlist of the read/write system attributes for a
file.
.sp
.LP
Use \fBgetattrat()\fR to obtain an nvlist of the read/write system attributes
for the file named \fBxattrfile\fR in the extended attribute directory of the
open file represented by file descriptor \fIfildes\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
nvlist_t *response;
nvpair_t *pair = NULL;

if (getattrat(fildes, XATTR_VIEW_READWRITE, "file", &response)) {
             exit(1);
}
while (pair = nvlist_next_nvpair(response, pair)) {
    .
    .
    .
}
nvlist_free(response);
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRSet the \fBA_APPENDONLY\fR system attribute on a file.
.sp
.LP
Use \fBsetattrat()\fR to set the \fBA_APPENDONLY\fR system attribute on the
file named \fBfile\fR in the extended attribute directory of the open file
represented by file descriptor \fIfildes\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
nvlist_t *request;
nvpair_t *pair = NULL;

if (nvlist_alloc(&request, NV_UNIQUE_NAME, 0) != 0) {
            exit(1);
}
if (nvlist_add_boolean_value(request, A_APPENDONLY, 1) != 0) {
            exit(1);
}
if (setattrat(fildes, XATTR_VIEW_READWRITE, "file", request)) {
            exit(1);
     }
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBcreat\fR(2), \fBdup\fR(2), \fBfcntl\fR(2), \fBfstat\fR(2), \fBfstatat\fR(2),
\fBopen\fR(2), \fBpipe\fR(2), \fBlibnvpair\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBfsattr\fR(5)
