'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FTOK 3C "Jul 24, 2002"
.SH NAME
ftok \- generate an IPC key
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ipc.h>

\fBkey_t\fR \fBftok\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIpath\fR, \fBint\fR \fIid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBftok()\fR function returns a key based on \fIpath\fR and \fIid\fR that
is usable in subsequent calls to \fBmsgget\fR(2), \fBsemget\fR(2) and
\fBshmget\fR(2). The \fIpath\fR argument must be the pathname of an existing
file that the process is able to \fBstat\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
The \fBftok()\fR function will return the same key value for all paths that
name the same file, when called with the same \fIid\fR value, and will return
different key values when called with different \fIid\fR values.
.sp
.LP
If the file named by \fIpath\fR is removed while still referred to by a key, a
call to \fBftok()\fR with the same \fIpath\fR and \fIid\fR returns an error. If
the same file is recreated, then a call to \fBftok()\fR with the same
\fIpath\fR and \fIid\fR is likely to return a different key.
.sp
.LP
Only the low order 8-bits of \fBid\fR are significant.  The behavior of
\fBftok()\fR is unspecified if these bits are 0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBftok()\fR returns a key.  Otherwise,
\fBftok()\fR returns \fB(key_t)\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBftok()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBELOOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving \fIpath\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The length of the \fIpath\fR argument exceeds \fB{\fR\fBPATH\fR\fB_MAX}  \fR or
a pathname component is longer than \fB{NAME_MAX}\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A component of \fIpath\fR does not name an existing file or \fIpath\fR is an
empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTDIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBftok()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate result whose
length exceeds \fB{PATH_MAX}  \fR.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
For maximum portability, \fIid\fR should be a single-byte character.
.sp
.LP
Another way to compose keys is to include the project ID in the most
significant byte and to use the remaining portion as a sequence number. There
are many other ways to form keys, but it is necessary for each system to define
standards for forming them. If some standard is not adhered to, it will be
possible for unrelated processes to unintentionally interfere with each other's
operation. It is still possible to interfere intentionally. Therefore, it is
strongly suggested that the most significant byte of a key in some sense refer
to a project so that keys do not conflict across a given system.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Since the \fBftok()\fR function returns a value based on the \fIid\fR given and
the file serial number of the file named by \fIpath\fR in a type that is no
longer large enough to hold all file serial numbers, it may return the same key
for paths naming different files on large filesystems.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmsgget\fR(2), \fBsemget\fR(2), \fBshmget\fR(2), \fBstat\fR(2),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
