.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH FWPRINTF 3C "Nov 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
fwprintf, wprintf, swprintf \- print formatted wide-character output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBfwprintf\fR(\fBFILE *restrict\fR \fIstream\fR, \fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fIformat\fR,
     \fB\fR\fI\&...\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBwprintf\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fIformat\fR, \fB\fR\fI\&...\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBswprintf\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR, \fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fIformat\fR,
     \fB\fR\fI\&...\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfwprintf()\fR function places output on the named output \fIstream\fR.
The \fBwprintf()\fR function places output on the standard output stream
\fBstdout\fR. The \fBswprintf()\fR function places output followed by the null
wide-character in consecutive wide-characters starting at \fI*s\fR; no more
than \fIn\fR wide-characters are written, including a terminating null
wide-character, which is always added (unless \fIn\fR is zero).
.sp
.LP
Each of these functions converts, formats and prints its arguments under
control of the \fIformat\fR wide-character string. The \fIformat\fR is composed
of zero or more directives: \fBordinary wide-characters\fR, which are simply
copied to the output stream and \fBconversion specifications\fR, each of which
results in the fetching of zero or more arguments. The results are undefined if
there are insufficient arguments for the \fIformat\fR. If the \fIformat\fR is
exhausted while arguments remain, the excess arguments are evaluated but are
otherwise ignored.
.sp
.LP
Conversions can be applied to the \fIn\fRth argument after the \fIformat\fR in
the argument list, rather than to the next unused argument. In this case, the
conversion wide-character \fB%\fR (see below) is replaced by the sequence
\fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR, where \fIn\fR is a decimal integer in the range [1,
\fBNL_ARGMAX\fR], giving the position of the argument in the argument list.
This feature provides for the definition of format wide-character strings that
select arguments in an order appropriate to specific languages (see the
\fBEXAMPLES\fR section).
.sp
.LP
In format wide-character strings containing the \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR form of
conversion specifications, numbered arguments in the argument list can be
referenced from the format wide-character string as many times as required.
.sp
.LP
In format wide-character strings containing the \fB%\fR form of conversion
specifications, each argument in the argument list is used exactly once.
.sp
.LP
All forms of the \fBfwprintf()\fR functions allow for the insertion of a
language-dependent radix character in the output string, output as a
wide-character value. The radix character is defined in the program's locale
(category \fBLC_NUMERIC\fR). In the POSIX locale, or in a locale where the
radix character is not defined, the radix character defaults to a period
(\|.\|).
.sp
.LP
Each conversion specification is introduced by the \fB%\fR wide-character or by
the wide-character sequence \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR, after which the following
appear in sequence:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Zero or more \fIflags\fR (in any order), which modify the meaning of the
conversion specification.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional minimum \fIfield width\fR. If the converted value has fewer
wide-characters than the field width, it will be padded with spaces by default
on the left; it will be padded on the right, if the left-adjustment flag
(\fB\(mi\fR), described below, is given to the field width. The field width
takes the form of an asterisk (*), described below, or a decimal integer.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional \fIprecision\fR that gives the minimum number of digits to appear
for the \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, and \fBX\fR conversions;
the number of digits to appear after the radix character for the \fBa\fR,
\fBA\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR, and \fBF\fR conversions; the maximum number
of significant digits for the \fBg\fR and \fBG\fR conversions; or the maximum
number of wide-characters to be printed from a string in \fBs\fR conversions.
The precision takes the form of a period (.) followed by either an asterisk
(*), described below, or an optional decimal digit string, where a null digit
string is treated as 0. If a precision appears with any other conversion
wide-character, the behavior is undefined.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional length modifier that specifies the size of the argument.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A \fIconversion specifier\fR wide character that indicates the type of
conversion to be applied.
.RE
.sp
.LP
A field width, or precision, or both, may be indicated by an asterisk (*). In
this case an argument of type \fBint\fR supplies the field width or precision.
Arguments specifying field width, or precision, or both must appear in that
order before the argument, if any, to be converted. A negative field width is
taken as a \fB\(mi\fR flag followed by a positive field width. A negative
precision is taken as if the precision were omitted. In format wide-character
strings containing the \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR form of a conversion
specification, a field width or precision may be indicated by the sequence
\fB*\fR\fIm\fR\fB$\fR, where \fIm\fR is a decimal integer in the range [1,
\fBNL_ARGMAX\fR] giving the position in the argument list (after the format
argument) of an integer argument containing the field width or precision, for
example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
wprintf(L"%1$d:%2$.*3$d:%4$.*3$d\en", hour, min, precision, sec);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fIformat\fR can contain either numbered argument specifications (that is,
\fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR and \fB*\fR\fIm\fR\fB$),\fR or unnumbered argument
specifications (that is, \fB%\fR and \fB*\fR), but normally not both. The only
exception to this is that \fB%%\fR can be mixed with the \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR
form. The results of mixing numbered and unnumbered argument specifications in
a \fIformat\fR wide-character string are undefined. When numbered argument
specifications are used, specifying the \fIN\fRth argument requires that all
the leading arguments, from the first to the (\fIN\(mi1\fR)th, are specified in
the format wide-character string.
.sp
.LP
The flag wide-characters and their meanings are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\&'\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The integer portion of the result of a decimal conversion (\fB%i\fR, \fB%d\fR,
\fB%u\fR, \fB%f\fR, \fB%F\fR, \fB%g\fR, or \fB%G\fR) will be formatted with
thousands' grouping wide-characters. For other conversions the behavior is
undefined. The non-monetary grouping wide-character is used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The result of the conversion will be left-justified within the field. The
conversion will be right-justified if this flag is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB+\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The result of a signed conversion will always begin with a sign (\fB+\fR or
\fB\(mi\fR). The conversion will begin with a sign only when a negative value
is converted if this flag is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBspace\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
If the first wide-character of a signed conversion is not a sign or if a signed
conversion results in no wide-characters, a space will be prefixed to the
result. This means that if the space and \fB+\fR flags both appear, the space
flag will be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB#\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
This flag specifies that the value is to be converted to an alternative form.
For \fBo\fR conversion, it increases the precision (if necessary) to force the
first digit of the result to be 0. For \fBx\fR or \fBX\fR conversions, a
non-zero result will have 0x (or 0X) prefixed to it. For \fBa\fR, \fBA\fR,
\fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR, \fBF\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBG\fR conversions, the result
will always contain a radix character, even if no digits follow it. Without
this flag, a radix character appears in the result of these conversions only if
a digit follows it. For \fBg\fR and \fBG\fR conversions, trailing zeros will
\fInot \fR be removed from the result as they normally are. For other
conversions, the behavior is undefined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
For \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, \fBX\fR, \fBa\fR, \fBA\fR,
\fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR, \fBF\fR, \fBg\fR, and \fBG\fR conversions, leading
zeros (following any indication of sign or base) are used to pad to the field
width; no space padding is performed. If the \fB0\fR and \fB\(mi\fR flags both
appear, the \fB0\fR flag will be ignored. For \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR,
\fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, and \fBX\fR conversions, if a precision is specified, the
\fB0\fR flag will be ignored. If the \fB0\fR and \fB\&'\fR flags both appear,
the grouping wide-characters are inserted before zero padding. For other
conversions, the behavior is undefined.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The length modifiers and their meanings:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to a \fBsigned char\fR or \fBunsigned
char\fR argument (the argument will have been promoted according to the integer
promotions, but its value shall be converted to \fBsigned char\fR or
\fBunsigned char\fR before printing); or that a following \fBn\fR conversion
specifier applies to a pointer to a \fBsigned char\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to a \fBshort\fR or \fBunsigned short\fR
argument (the argument will have been promoted according to the integer
promotions, but its value shall be converted to \fBshort\fR or \fBunsigned
short\fR before printing); or that a following \fBn\fR conversion specifier
applies to a pointer to a \fBshort\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBl\fR (ell)\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to a \fBlong\fR or \fBunsigned long\fR
argument; that a following n conversion specifier applies to a pointer to a
\fBlong\fR argument; that a following \fBc\fR conversion specifier applies to a
\fBwint_t\fR argument; that a following \fBs\fR conversion specifier applies to
a pointer to a \fBwchar_t\fR argument; or has no effect on a following \fBa\fR,
\fBA\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR, \fBF\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBG\fR conversion
specifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBll\fR (ell-ell)\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to a\fB long long\fR or unsigned \fBlong
long\fR argument; or that a following \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to a
pointer to a \fBlong long\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBj\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to an \fBintmax_t\fR or \fBuintmax_t\fR
argument; or that a following \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to a pointer
to an \fBintmax_t\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBz\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to a \fBsize_t\fR or the corresponding
signed integer type argument; or that a following \fBn\fR conversion specifier
applies to a pointer to a signed integer type corresponding to \fBsize_t\fR
argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR, or
\fBX\fR conversion specifier applies to a \fBptrdiff_t\fR or the corresponding
unsigned type argument; or that a following \fBn\fR conversion specifier
applies to a pointer to a \fBptrdiff_t\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBa\fR, \fBA\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR,
\fBF\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBG\fR conversion specifier applies to a long double
argument.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a length modifier appears with any conversion specifier other than as
specified above, the behavior is undefined.
.sp
.LP
The conversion wide-characters and their meanings are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fR, \fBi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBint\fR argument is converted to a signed decimal in the style
\fB[\fR\(mi\fB]\fR\fIdddd\fR. The precision specifies the minimum number of
digits to appear; if the value being converted can be represented in fewer
digits, it will be expanded with leading zeros. The default precision is 1. The
result of converting 0 with an explicit precision of 0 is no wide-characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBo\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBunsigned int\fR argument is converted to unsigned octal format in the
style \fIdddd\fR. The precision specifies the minimum number of digits to
appear; if the value being converted can be represented in fewer digits, it
will be expanded with leading zeros. The default precision is 1. The result of
converting 0 with an explicit precision of 0 is no wide-characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBunsigned int\fR argument is converted to unsigned decimal format in the
style \fIdddd\fR. The precision specifies the minimum number of digits to
appear; if the value being converted can be represented in fewer digits, it
will be expanded with leading zeros. The default precision is 1. The result of
converting 0 with an explicit precision of 0 is no wide-characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBunsigned int\fR argument is converted to unsigned hexadecimal format in
the style \fIdddd\fR; the letters abcdef are used. The precision specifies the
minimum number of digits to appear; if the value being converted can be
represented in fewer digits, it will be expanded with leading zeros. The
default precision is 1. The result of converting 0 with an explicit precision
of 0 is no wide-characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Behaves the same as the \fBx\fR conversion wide-character except that letters
"\fBABCDEF\fR" are used instead of "\fBabcdef\fR".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBf\fR, \fBF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBdouble\fR argument is converted to decimal notation in the style
[\fB\(mi\fR]\fIddd\fR\fB\&.\fR\fIddd\fR, where the number of digits after the
radix character (see \fBsetlocale\fR(3C)) is equal to the precision
specification. If the precision is missing it is taken as 6; if the precision
is explicitly 0 and the \fB#\fR flag is not specified, no radix character
appears. If a radix character appears, at least 1 digit appears before it. The
converted value is rounded to fit the specified output format according to the
prevailing floating point rounding direction mode. If the conversion is not
exact, an inexact exception is raised.
.sp
For the \fBf\fR specifier, a double argument representing an infinity or NaN is
converted in the style of the \fBe\fR conversion specifier, except that for an
infinite argument, "infinity" or "Infinity" is printed when the precision is at
least 8 and "inf" or "Inf" is printed otherwise.
.sp
For the F specifier, a double argument representing an infinity or NaN is
converted in the SUSv3 style of the E conversion specifier, except that for an
infinite argument, "INFINITY" is printed when the precision is at least 8 and
or "INF" is printed otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBe\fR, \fBE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBdouble\fR argument is converted in the style
\fB[\fR\(mi\fB]\fR\fId.ddd\fRe\|\(+-\|dd, where there is one digit before the
radix character (which is non-zero if the argument is non-zero) and the number
of digits after it is equal to the precision; if the precision is missing, it
is taken as 6; if the precision is 0 and no \fB#\fR flag is present, no radix
character appears. The converted value is rounded to fit the specified output
format according to the prevailing floating point rounding direction mode. If
the conversion is not exact, an inexact exception is raised. The \fBE\fR
conversion wide-character will produce a number with \fBE\fR instead of \fBe\fR
introducing the exponent. The exponent always contains at least two digits. If
the value is 0, the exponent is 0.
.sp
Infinity and NaN values are handled in one of the following ways:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBSUSv3\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
For the \fBe\fR specifier, a \fBdouble\fR argument representing an infinity is
printed as "[\(mi]\fBinfinity\fR", when the precision for the conversion is at
least 7 and as "[\(mi]\fBinf\fR" otherwise. A \fBdouble\fR argument
representing a NaN is printed as "[\(mi]\fBnan\fR". For the \fBE\fR specifier,
"\fBINF\fR", "\fBINFINITY\fR", and "\fBNAN\fR" are printed instead of
"\fBinf\fR", "\fBinfinity\fR", and "\fBnan\fR", respectively. Printing of the
sign follows the rules described above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDefault\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A \fBdouble\fR argument representing an infinity is printed as
"[\(mi]\fBInfinity\fR", when the precision for the conversion is at least 7 and
as "[\(mi]\fBInf\fR" otherwise. A double argument representing a NaN is printed
as "[\(mi]\fBNaN\fR". Printing of the sign follows the rules described above.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBg\fR, \fBG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The \fBdouble\fR argument is converted in the style \fBf\fR or \fBe\fR (or in
the style \fBE\fR in the case of a \fBG\fR conversion wide-character), with the
precision specifying the number of significant digits. If an explicit precision
is 0, it is taken as 1. The style used depends on the value converted; style
\fBe\fR (or \fBE\fR \fB)\fR will be used only if the exponent resulting from
such a conversion is less than \(mi4 or greater than or equal to the precision.
Trailing zeros are removed from the fractional portion of the result; a radix
character appears only if it is followed by a digit.
.sp
A \fBdouble\fR argument representing an infinity or NaN is converted in the
style of the \fBe\fR or \fBE\fR conversion specifier, except that for an
infinite argument, "infinity", "INFINITY", or "Infinity" is printed when the
precision is at least 8 and "inf", "INF", or "Inf" is printed otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa\fR, \fBA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A double argument representing a floating-point number is converted in the
style "[-]\fB0xh.hhhhp\(+-d\fR", where the single hexadecimal digit preceding
the radix point is 0 if the value converted is zero and 1 otherwise and the
number of hexadecimal digits after it are equal to the precision; if the
precision is missing, the number of digits printed after the radix point is 13
for the conversion of a double value, 16 for the conversion of a long double
value on x86, and 28 for the conversion of a long double value on SPARC; if the
precision is zero and the '#' flag is not specified, no decimal-point wide
character appears. The letters "abcdef" are used for \fBa\fR conversion and the
letters "ABCDEF" for \fBA\fR conversion. The \fBA\fR conversion specifier
produces a number with 'X' and 'P' instead of 'x' and 'p'. The exponent always
contains at least one digit, and only as many more digits as necessary to
represent the decimal exponent of 2. If the value is zero, the exponent is
zero.
.sp
The converted valueis rounded to fit the specified output format according to
the prevailing floating point rounding direction mode. If the conversion is not
exact, an inexact exception is raised.
.sp
A \fBdouble\fR argument representing an infinity or NaN is converted in the
SUSv3 style of an \fBe\fR or \fBE\fR conversion specifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
If no \fBl\fR (ell) qualifier is present, the \fBint\fR argument is converted
to a wide-character as if by calling the \fBbtowc\fR(3C) function and the
resulting wide-character is written. Otherwise the \fBwint_t\fR argument is
converted to \fBwchar_t\fR, and written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
If no \fBl\fR (ell) qualifier is present, the argument must be a pointer to a
character array containing a character sequence beginning in the initial shift
state. Characters from the array are converted as if by repeated calls to the
\fBmbrtowc\fR(3C) function, with the conversion state described by an
\fBmbstate_t\fR object initialized to zero before the first character is
converted, and written up to (but not including) the terminating null
wide-character. If the precision is specified, no more than that many
wide-characters are written. If the precision is not specified or is greater
than the size of the array, the array must contain a null wide-character.
.sp
If an \fBl\fR (ell) qualifier is present, the argument must be a pointer to an
array of type \fBwchar_t\fR. Wide characters from the array are written up to
(but not including) a terminating null wide-character. If no precision is
specified or is greater than the size of the array, the array must contain a
null wide-character. If a precision is specified, no more than that many
wide-characters are written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The argument must be a pointer to \fBvoid\fR. The value of the pointer is
converted to a sequence of printable wide-characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The argument must be a pointer to an integer into which is written the number
of wide-characters written to the output so far by this call to one of the
\fBfwprintf()\fR functions. No argument is converted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Same as \fBlc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Same as \fBls\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Output a % wide-character; no argument is converted. The entire conversion
specification must be \fB%%\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a conversion specification does not match one of the above forms, the
behavior is undefined.
.sp
.LP
In no case does a non-existent or small field width cause truncation of a
field; if the result of a conversion is wider than the field width, the field
is simply expanded to contain the conversion result. Characters generated by
\fBfwprintf()\fR and \fBwprintf()\fR are printed as if \fBfputwc\fR(3C) had
been called.
.sp
.LP
The \fBst_ctime\fR and \fBst_mtime\fR fields of the file will be marked for
update between the call to a successful execution of \fBfwprintf()\fR or
\fBwprintf()\fR and the next successful completion of a call to
\fBfflush\fR(3C) or \fBfclose\fR(3C) on the same stream or a call to
\fBexit\fR(3C) or \fBabort\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the number of
wide-characters transmitted excluding the terminating null wide-character in
the case of \fBswprintf()\fR or a negative value if an output error was
encountered.
.sp
.LP
If \fIn\fR or more wide characters were requested to be written,
\fBswprintf()\fR returns a negative value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
For the conditions under which \fBfwprintf()\fR and \fBwprintf()\fR will fail
and may fail, refer to \fBfputwc\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
In addition, all forms of \fBfwprintf()\fR may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A wide-character code that does not correspond to a valid character has been
detected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are insufficient arguments.
.RE

.sp
.LP
In addition, \fBwprintf()\fR and \fBfwprintf()\fR may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Insufficient storage space is available.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRPrint Language-dependent Date and Time Format.
.sp
.LP
To print the language-independent date and time format, the following statement
could be used:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
wprintf(format, weekday, month, day, hour, min);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For American usage, \fIformat\fR could be a pointer to the wide-character
string:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
L"%s, %s %d, %d:%.2d\en"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
producing the message:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Sunday, July 3, 10:02
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
whereas for German usage, \fIformat\fR could be a pointer to the wide-character
string:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
L"%1$s, %3$d. %2$s, %4$d:%5$.2d\en"
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
producing the message:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
Sonntag, 3. Juli, 10:02
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBbtowc\fR(3C), \fBfputwc\fR(3C), \fBfwscanf\fR(3C), \fBmbrtowc\fR(3C),
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBfwprintf()\fR, \fBwprintf()\fR, and \fBswprintf()\fR functions can be
used safely in multithreaded applications, as long as \fBsetlocale\fR(3C) is
not being called to change the locale.
.sp
.LP
If the \fBj\fR length modifier is used, 32-bit applications that were compiled
using \fBc89\fR on releases prior to Solaris 10 will experience undefined
behavior.
