'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETEXECNAME 3C "Dec 17, 1997"
.SH NAME
getexecname \- return pathname of executable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBconst char *\fR\fBgetexecname\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetexecname()\fR function returns the pathname (the first argument of
one of the \fBexec\fR family of functions; see \fBexec\fR(2)) of the executable
that started the process.
.sp
.LP
Normally this is an absolute pathname, as the majority of commands are executed
by the shells that append the command name to the user's \fBPATH\fR components.
If this is not an absolute path, the output of \fBgetcwd\fR(3C) can be
prepended to it to create an absolute path, unless the process or one of its
ancestors has changed its root directory or current working directory since the
last successful call to one of the \fBexec\fR family of functions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, \fBgetexecname()\fR returns a pointer to the executables
pathname; otherwise, it returns \fB0\fR.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetexecname()\fR function obtains the executable pathname from the
\fBAT_SUN_EXECNAME\fR aux vector.  These vectors are made available to
dynamically linked processes only.
.sp
.LP
A successful call to one of the \fBexec\fR family of functions will always have
\fBAT_SUN_EXECNAME\fR in the aux vector. The associated pathname is guaranteed
to be less than or equal to \fIPATH_MAX\fR, not counting the trailing null byte
that is always present.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBexec\fR(2), \fBgetcwd\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
