'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETHOSTID 3C "Jan 29, 2009"
.SH NAME
gethostid \- get an identifier for the current host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBgethostid\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgethostid()\fR function returns the 32-bit identifier for the current
host. If the hardware capability exists, this identifier is taken from
platform-dependent stable storage; otherwise it is a randomly generated number.
It is not guaranteed to be unique.
.sp
.LP
If the calling thread's process is executing within a non-global zone that
emulates a host identifier, then the zone's emulated 32-bit host identifier is
returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBhostid\fR(1), \fBsysinfo\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5),
\fBzones\fR(5)
