'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2013 Gary Mills
.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETLOGIN 3C "May 25, 2013"
.SH NAME
getlogin, getlogin_r \- get login name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBgetlogin\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBgetlogin_r\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fInamelen\fR);
.fi

.SS "Standard conforming"
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag \fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-D_POSIX_PTHREAD_SEMANTICS\fR [ \fIlibrary \fR... ]

\fBint\fR \fBgetlogin_r\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fInamesize\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin()\fR function returns a pointer to the login name as found in
\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR. It can be used in conjunction with \fBgetpwnam\fR(3C) to
locate the correct password file entry when the same user \fBID\fR is shared by
several login names.
.sp
.LP
The login name plus the terminating null byte can be up to 33 characters
in length.
Newly-compiled programs should use the \fBLOGIN_NAME_MAX\fR symbol,
defined in <\fBlimits.h\fR>, to size the buffer.
Older programs that call \fBgetlogin()\fR  expect only the legacy
9-character length.
These automatically link to a version of the \fBgetlogin()\fR functions that
truncates longer login names.
It's also possible to compile new programs that link to truncating versions
of these functions by defining \fB__USE_LEGACY_LOGNAME__\fR in the
compile environment.
.sp
.LP
Some older programs will correctly handle long login names returned
by the \fBgetlogin()\fR function.
For this case, the user compatibility library
\fB/usr/lib/getloginx.so.1\fR redirects to a version of the \fBgetlogin()\fR
function that returns the long name.
This library should be added to such an application
at runtime using \fBLD_PRELOAD\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fBgetlogin()\fR is called within a process that is not attached to a
terminal, it returns a null pointer. The correct procedure for determining the
login name is to call \fBcuserid\fR(3C), or to call \fBgetlogin()\fR and if it
fails to call \fBgetpwuid\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function has the same functionality as \fBgetlogin()\fR
except that the caller must supply a buffer \fIname\fR with length
\fInamelen\fR to store the result.  The \fIname\fR buffer must be at least
\fBLOGIN_NAME_MAX\fR bytes in size (defined in <\fBlimits.h\fR>). The
POSIX version (see \fBstandards\fR(5)) of \fBgetlogin_r()\fR takes a
\fInamesize\fR parameter of type \fBsize_t\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBgetlogin()\fR returns a pointer to the login
name or a null pointer if the user's login name cannot be found.  Otherwise it
returns a null pointer and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
The standard-conforming \fBgetlogin_r()\fR returns \fB0\fR if successful, or
the error number upon failure.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The size of the buffer is smaller than the result to be returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
And entry for the current user was not found in the \fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin()\fR and \fBgetlogin_r()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEMFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are {\fBOPEN_MAX\fR} file descriptors currently open in the calling
process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENFILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The calling process has no controlling terminal.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The size of the buffer is smaller than the result to be returned.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The return value of \fBgetlogin()\fR points to thread-specific data whose
content is overwritten on each call by the same thread.
.sp
.LP
Three names associated with the current process can be determined:
\fBgetpwuid(\fR\fBgeteuid()\fR\fB)\fR returns the name associated with the
effective user ID of the process; \fBgetlogin()\fR returns the name associated
with the current login activity; and \fBgetpwuid(\fR\fBgetuid()\fR\fB)\fR
returns the name associated with the real user ID of the process.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
user access and administration information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/getloginx.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A compatibility library that returns long login names to older applications.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/64/getloginx.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A 64-bit compatibility library to return long login names.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	See below.
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgeteuid\fR(2), \fBgetuid\fR(2), \fBcuserid\fR(3C), \fBgetgrnam\fR(3C),
\fBgetpwnam\fR(3C), \fBgetpwuid\fR(3C), \fButmpx\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded programs, see \fBIntro\fR(3).
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetlogin()\fR function is safe to use in multithreaded applications, but
is discouraged. The \fBgetlogin_r()\fR function should be used instead.
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.4 and earlier releases provided a \fBgetlogin_r()\fR as specified in
POSIX.1c Draft 6. The final POSIX.1c standard changed the interface as
described above. Support for the Draft 6 interface is provided for
compatibility only and may not be supported in future releases. New
applications and libraries should use the standard-conforming interface.
