'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETWS 3C "Oct 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
getws, fgetws \- get a wide-character string from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
include <widec.h>

\fBwchar_t *\fR\fBgetws\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fIws\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
include <wchar.h>

\fBwchar_t *\fR\fBfgetws\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIws\fR, \fBint\fR \fIn\fR, \fBFILE *restrict\fR \fIstream\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetws()\fR function reads a string of characters from the standard input
stream, \fBstdin\fR, converts these characters to the corresponding
wide-character codes, and writes them to the array pointed to by \fIws\fR,
until a newline character is read, converted and transferred to \fIws\fR or an
end-of-file condition is encountered. The wide-character string, \fIws\fR, is
then terminated with a null wide-character code.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetws()\fR function reads characters from the \fIstream\fR, converts
them to the corresponding wide-character codes,  and places them in the
\fBwchar_t\fR array pointed to by \fIws\fR until \fIn\fR\(mi1 characters are
read, or until a newline character is read, converted and transferred to
\fIws\fR, or an end-of-file condition is encountered. The wide-character
string, \fIws\fR, is then terminated with a null wide-character code.
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs, the resulting value of the file position indicator for the
stream is indeterminate.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfgetws()\fR function may mark the \fBst_atime\fR field of the file
associated with \fIstream\fR for update. The \fBst_atime\fR field will be
marked for update by the first successful execution of \fBfgetc\fR(3C),
\fBfgets\fR(3C), \fBfgetwc\fR(3C), \fBfgetws()\fR, \fBfread\fR(3C),
\fBfscanf\fR(3C), \fBgetc\fR(3C), \fBgetchar\fR(3C), \fBgets\fR(3C), or
\fBscanf\fR(3C) using \fIstream\fR that returns data not supplied by a prior
call to \fBungetc\fR(3C) or \fBungetwc\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBgetws()\fR and \fBfgetws()\fR return \fIws\fR.
If the stream is at end-of-file, the end-of-file indicator for the stream is
set and \fBfgetws()\fR returns a null pointer. For standard-conforming (see
\fBstandards\fR(5)) applications, if the end-of-file indicator for the stream
is set, \fBfgetws()\fR returns a null pointer whether or not the stream is at
end-of-file. If a read error occurs, the error indicator for the stream is set
and \fBfgetws()\fR returns a null pointer and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
See \fBfgetwc\fR(3C) for the conditions that will cause \fBfgetws()\fR to fail.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	\fBfgetws()\fR is Standard.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBferror\fR(3C), \fBfgetwc\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C), \fBgetwc\fR(3C),
\fBputws\fR(3C), \fBscanf\fR(3C), \fBungetc\fR(3C),
\fBungetwc\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
