'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETWC 3C "Jul 11, 2014"
.SH NAME
getwc, getwc_l \- get wide character from a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBgetwc\fR(\fBFILE\fR \fI*stream\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <wchar.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBgetwc_l\fR(\fBFILE\fR \fI*stream\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetwc()\fR function is equivalent to \fBfgetwc\fR(3C), except that if it
is implemented as a macro it may evaluate \fIstream\fR more than once, so the
argument should never be an expression with side effects.
.LP
The \fBgetwc_l()\fR function is similar to \fBgetwc()\fR, except instead of
acting on the current locale, it uses the locale specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Refer to \fBfgetwc\fR(3C).
.SH ERRORS
.LP
Refer to \fBfgetwc\fR(3C).
.SH USAGE
.LP
This interface is provided to align with some current implementations and with
possible future \fBISO\fR standards.
.LP
Because they may be implemented as macros, these functions may treat incorrectly
a \fIstream\fR argument with side effects.  In particular,
\fBgetwc\fR(*\fIf\fR\|++) may not work as expected.  Therefore, use of these
functions is not recommended; \fBfgetwc\fR(3C) and \fBfgetwc_l\fR(3C)
should be used instead.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.LP
The
.B getwc()
function is Standard.  The
.B getwc_l()
function is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBfgetwc\fR(3C), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
