.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH INDEX 3C "Jul 24, 2002"
.SH NAME
index, rindex \- string operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <strings.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBindex\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBrindex\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBindex()\fR and \fBrindex()\fR functions operate on null-terminated
strings.
.sp
.LP
The \fBindex()\fR function returns a pointer to the first occurrence of
character \fIc\fR in string \fIs\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrindex()\fR function returns a pointer to the last occurrence of
character \fIc\fR in string \fIs\fR.
.sp
.LP
Both \fBindex()\fR and  \fBrindex()\fR return a null pointer if \fIc\fR does
not occur in the string. The null character terminating a string is considered
to be part of the string.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
On most modern computer systems, you can \fInot\fR use a null pointer to
indicate a null string.  A null pointer is an error and results in an abort of
the program.  If you wish to indicate a null string, you must use a pointer
that points to an explicit null string.  On some machines and with some
implementations of the C programming language, a null pointer, if dereferenced,
would yield a null string.  Though often used, this practice is not always
portable. Programmers using a null pointer to represent an empty string should
be aware of this portability issue.  Even on machines where dereferencing a
null pointer does not cause an abort of the program, it does not necessarily
yield a null string.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBbstring\fR(3C), \fBmalloc\fR(3C), \fBstring\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
