'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH INITGROUPS 3C "Mar 22, 2004"
.SH NAME
initgroups \- initialize the supplementary group access list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <grp.h>
#include <sys/types.h>

\fBint\fR \fBinitgroups\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBgid_t\fR \fIbasegid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBinitgroups()\fR function reads the group database to get the group
membership for the user specified by \fIname\fR, and initializes the
supplementary group access list of the calling process (see \fBgetgrnam\fR(3C)
and \fBgetgroups\fR(2)). The \fIbasegid\fR group ID is also included in the
supplementary group access list. This is typically the real group ID from the
user database.
.sp
.LP
While scanning the group database, if the number of groups, including the
\fIbasegid\fR entry, exceeds \fBNGROUPS_MAX\fR, subsequent group entries are
ignored.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBinitgroups()\fR function will fail and not change the supplementary
group access list if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The {\fBPRIV_PROC_SETID\fR} privilege is not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetgroups\fR(2), \fBgetgrnam\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
