'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\"  Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\"  You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\"  1.0 of the CDDL.
.\" 
.\"  A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\"  source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\"  http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.TH INOTIFY_RM_WATCH 3C "Sep 17, 2014"
.SH NAME
inotify_rm_watch \- remove a watch from an inotify instance
.SH SYNOPSIS

.LP
.nf
#include <sys/inotify.h>

\fBint\fR \fBinotify_rm_watch\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBint\fR \fIwd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBinotify_rm_watch()\fR function removes the watch specified
by \fIwd\fR from the inotify instance associated with \fIfd\fR.
Removing a watch will induce an \fBIN_IGNORED\fR event; see
\fBinotify\fR(5) for details.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon succesful completion, \fBinotify_add_watch()\fR returns the
watch descriptor associated with the new watch.
If an error occurs, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate
the error.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBinotify_rm_watch()\fR will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfd\fR argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfd\fR argument does not correspond to an
\fBinotify\fR(5) instance as initialized with 
\fBinotify_init\fR(3C) or \fBinotify_init1\fR(3C), or
\fIwd\fR is not a valid watch for the specified inotify
instance.
.RE

.sp
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP

While the \fBinotify\fR(5) facility is implemented for purposes of
offering compatibility for Linux-borne applications, native
applications may opt to use it instead of (or in addition to) the 
\fBPORT_SOURCE_FILE\fR capability of event ports.  See
\fBinotify\fR(5) for details and restrictions.

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinotify_init\fR(3C), \fBinotify_init1\fR(3C),
\fBport_create\fR(3C), \fBport_associate\fR(3C), \fBport_get\fR(3C),
\fBinotify\fR(5)
