.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.TH ISWCTYPE 3C "Jul 26, 2014"
.SH NAME
iswctype \- test character for specified class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBiswctype\fR(\fBwint_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBwctype_t\fR \fIcharclass\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBiswctype\fR(\fBwint_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBwctype_t\fR \fIcharclass\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B iswctype()
and
.B iswctype_l()
functions determine whether the wide-character code
.I wc
is a member of the character class
.IR charclass ,
returning
.B TRUE
or
.BR FALSE .
These functions are defined on
.B WEOF
and wide-character codes corresponding to the valid character encodings in the
current locale (or
.I loc
for
.BR iswctype_l() .)
If the
.I wc
argument is not in the domain of the function,
the result is undefined. If the value of
.I charclass
is invalid (that is,
not obtained by a call to
.B wctype (3C)
or obtained from a different locale), the result is indeterminate.
.LP
Whereas
.B iswctype()
operates in the current locale,
.B iswctype_l()
operates in the locale specified with
.IR loc .
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
These functions return
.B 0
for
.B FALSE
and non-zero for
.BR TRUE .
.SH USAGE
.LP
There are twelve strings that are reserved for the standard character classes:
.TS
box;
l | l | l .
"alnum"	"alpha"	"blank"
_
"cntrl"	"digit"	"graph"
_
"lower"	"print"	"punct"
_
"space"	"upper"	"xdigit"
.TE

.LP
In the table below, the functions in the left column are equivalent to the
functions in the right column.
.TS
box;
l | l .
\fBiswalnum\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("alnum"))
\fBiswalpha\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("alpha"))
\fBiswcntrl\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("cntrl"))
\fBiswdigit\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("digit"))
\fBiswgraph\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("graph"))
\fBiswlower\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("lower"))
\fBiswprint\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("print"))
\fBiswpunct\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("punct"))
\fBiswspace\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("space"))
\fBiswupper\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("upper"))
\fBiswxdigit\fR(\fIwc\fR)	\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("xdigit"))
.TE

.LP
The call
.LP
\fBiswctype\fR(\fIwc\fR, \fBwctype\fR("blank"))
.LP
does not have an equivalent \fBisw*(\|)\fR function.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See
.BR attributes (5)
for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR iswalpha (3C),
.BR newlocale (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR uselocale (3C),
.BR wctype (3C),
.BR attributes (5),
.BR standards (5)
