'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIO_LISTIO 3C "Feb 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
lio_listio \- list directed I/O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <aio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlio_listio\fR(\fBint\fR \fImode\fR, \fBstruct aiocb *restrict const\fR \fIlist\fR[],
     \fBint\fR \fInent\fR, \fBstruct sigevent *restrict\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBlio_listio()\fR function allows the calling process, LWP, or thread, to
initiate a list of I/O requests within a single function call.
.sp
.LP
The \fImode\fR argument takes one of the values \fBLIO_WAIT\fR or
\fBLIO_NOWAIT\fR declared in <\fBaio.h\fR> and determines whether the function
returns when the I/O operations have been completed, or as soon as the
operations have been queued. If the \fImode\fR argument is \fBLIO_WAIT\fR, the
function waits until all I/O is complete and the \fIsig\fR argument is ignored.
.sp
.LP
If the \fImode\fR argument is \fBLIO_NOWAIT\fR, the function returns
immediately, and asynchronous notification occurs, according to the \fIsig\fR
argument, when all the I/O operations complete. If \fIsig\fR is \fINULL\fR, no
asynchronous notification occurs. If \fIsig\fR is not \fINULL\fR, asynchronous
notification occurs as specified in \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) when all the requests
in \fIlist\fR have completed.
.sp
.LP
The I/O requests enumerated by \fIlist\fR are submitted in an unspecified
order.
.sp
.LP
The \fIlist\fR argument is an array of pointers to \fBaiocb\fR structures. The
array contains \fInent\fR elements. The array may contain null elements, which
are ignored.
.sp
.LP
The \fIaio_lio_opcode\fR field of each \fBaiocb\fR structure specifies the
operation to be performed. The supported operations are \fBLIO_READ\fR,
\fBLIO_WRITE\fR, and \fBLIO_NOP\fR; these symbols are defined in <\fBaio.h\fR>.
The \fBLIO_NOP\fR operation causes the list entry to be ignored. If the
\fIaio_lio_opcode\fR element is equal to \fBLIO_READ,\fR then an I/O operation
is submitted as if by a call to \fBaio_read\fR(3C) with the \fIaiocbp\fR equal
to the address of the \fBaiocb\fR structure. If the \fIaio_lio_opcode\fR
element is equal to \fBLIO_WRITE\fR, then an I/O operation is submitted as if
by a call to \fBaio_write\fR(3C) with the \fIaiocbp\fR equal to the address of
the \fBaiocb\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
The \fIaio_fildes\fR member specifies the file descriptor on which the
operation is to be performed.
.sp
.LP
The \fIaio_buf\fR member specifies the address of the buffer to or from which
the data is to be transferred.
.sp
.LP
The \fIaio_nbytes\fR member specifies the number of bytes of data to be
transferred.
.sp
.LP
The members of the \fIaiocb\fR structure further describe the I/O operation to
be performed, in a manner identical to that of the corresponding \fBaiocb\fR
structure when used by the \fBaio_read\fR(3C) and \fBaio_write\fR(3C)
functions.
.sp
.LP
The \fInent\fR argument specifies how many elements are members of the list,
that is, the length of the array.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of this function is altered according to the definitions of
synchronized I/O data integrity completion and synchronized I/O file integrity
completion if synchronized I/O is enabled on the file associated with
\fBaio_fildes\fR. See \fBfcntl.h\fR(3HEAD) definitions of \fBO_DSYNC\fR and
\fBO_SYNC\fR.
.sp
.LP
For regular files, no data transfer will occur past the offset maximum
established in the open file description associated with
\fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_fildes\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the \fImode\fR argument has the value  \fBLIO_NOWAIT\fR, and the I/O
operations are successfully queued, \fBlio_listio()\fR returns \fB0\fR;
otherwise, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR, and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
If the   \fImode\fR argument has the value \fBLIO_WAIT\fR, and all the
indicated I/O has completed successfully, \fBlio_listio()\fR returns   \fB0\fR;
otherwise, it returns  \fB\(mi1\fR, and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
In either case, the return value only indicates the success or failure of the
\fBlio_listio()\fR call itself, not the status of the individual I/O requests.
In some cases, one or more of the I/O requests contained in the list may fail.
Failure of an individual request does not prevent completion of any other
individual request.  To determine the outcome of each I/O request, the
application must examine the error status associated with each \fIaiocb\fR
control block.  Each error status so returned is identical to that returned as
a result of an \fBaio_read\fR(3C) or \fBaio_write\fR(3C) function.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlio_listio()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The resources necessary to queue all the I/O requests were not available. The
error status for each request is recorded in the \fBaio_error\fR member of the
corresponding \fBaiocb\fR structure, and can be retrieved using
\fBaio_error\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The number of entries indicated by \fInent\fR would cause the system-wide limit
\fBAIO_MAX\fR to be exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fImode\fR argument is an improper value, or the value of \fInent\fR is
greater than \fBAIO_LISTIO_MAX\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A signal was delivered while waiting for all I/O requests to complete during an
\fBLIO_WAIT\fR operation. Note that, since each I/O operation invoked by
\fBlio_listio()\fR may possibly provoke a signal when it completes, this error
return may be caused by the completion of one (or more) of the very I/O
operations being awaited. Outstanding I/O requests are not canceled, and the
application can use \fBaio_fsync\fR(3C) to determine if any request was
initiated; \fBaio_return\fR(3C) to determine if any request has completed; or
\fBaio_error\fR(3C) to determine if any request was canceled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
One or more of the individual I/O operations failed. The application can use
\fBaio_error\fR(3C) to check the error status for each \fBaiocb\fR structure to
determine the individual request(s) that failed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
In addition to the errors returned by the \fBlio_listio()\fR function, if the
\fBlio_listio()\fR function succeeds or fails with errors of \fBEAGAIN\fR,
\fBEINTR\fR, or \fBEIO\fR, then some of the I/O specified by the list may have
been initiated. If the \fBlio_listio()\fR function fails with an error code
other than \fBEAGAIN\fR, \fBEINTR\fR, or \fBEIO\fR, no operations from the list
have been initiated. The I/O operation indicated by each list element can
encounter errors specific to the individual read or write function being
performed. In this event, the error status for each \fBaiocb\fR control block
contains the associated error code. The error codes that can be set are the
same as would be set by a \fBread\fR(2) or \fBwrite\fR(2) function, with the
following additional error codes possible:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The requested I/O operation was not queued due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBECANCELED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The requested I/O was canceled before the I/O completed due to an explicit
\fBaio_cancel\fR(3C) request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFBIG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The \fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_lio_opcode\fR is \fBLIO_WRITE\fR, the file is a
regular file, \fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_nbytes\fR is greater than 0, and the
\fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_offset\fR is greater than or equal to the offset maximum
in the open file description associated with \fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_fildes.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINPROGRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The requested I/O is in progress.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOVERFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The \fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_lio_opcode\fR is \fBLIO_READ\fR, the file is a
regular file, \fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_nbytes\fR is greater than 0, and the
\fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_offset\fR is before the end-of-file and is greater than
or equal to the offset maximum in the open file description associated with
\fIaiocbp\fR\(->\fBaio_fildes.\fR
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBlio_listio()\fR function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets.  See \fBlf64\fR(5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBclose\fR(2), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBexit\fR(2), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBlseek\fR(2),
\fBread\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2), \fBaio_cancel\fR(3C), \fBaio_error\fR(3C),
\fBaio_fsync\fR(3C), \fBaio_read\fR(3C), \fBaio_return\fR(3C),
\fBaio_write\fR(3C), \fBaio.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBfcntl.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBsiginfo.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBlf64\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
