.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.TH MBLEN 3C "Jun 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
mblen, mblen_l \- get number of bytes in a character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmblen\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmblen_l\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If \fIs\fR is not a null pointer, \fBmblen()\fR and \fBmblen_l()\fR
determine the number of bytes constituting the character pointed to by
\fIs\fR. The call
.IP
\fBmblen\fR(\fIs\fR, \fIn\fR);
.LP
is equivalent to:
.IP
\fBmbtowc\fR((\fBwchar_t\fR *)0, \fIs\fR, \fIn\fR);
.LP
A call with \fIs\fR as a null pointer causes this function to return \fB0\fR.
.LP
Whereas the behavior of the \fBmblen()\fR function is affected by the
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR category of the current locale, the behavior of
\fBmblen_l()\fR is affected by the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category of the
locale specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If \fIs\fR is a null pointer, \fBmblen()\fR and \fBmblen_l()\fR returns \fB0\fR. It \fIs\fR is not
a null pointer, \fBmblen()\fR and \fBmblen_l()\fR returns \fB0\fR (if \fIs\fR points to the null
byte), the number of bytes that constitute the character (if the next \fIn\fR
or fewer bytes form a valid character), or  \fB\(mi1\fR (if they do not form a
valid character) and may set \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error. In no case will
the value returned be greater than \fIn\fR or the value of the \fBMB_CUR_MAX\fR
macro.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBmblen()\fR and \fBmblen_l()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid character sequence is detected.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.LP
The
.B mblen()
function is Standard. The
.B mblen_l()
function is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmbstowcs\fR(3C), \fBmbtowc\fR(3C), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C),
\fBwcstombs\fR(3C), \fBwctomb\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C) \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
