.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.TH MBSINIT 3C "Jun 23, 2014"
.SH NAME
mbsinit,mbsinit_l \- determine conversion object status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmbsinit\fR(\fBconst mbstate_t *\fR\fIps\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmbsinit_l\fR(\fBconst mbstate_t *\fR\fIps\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If \fBps\fR is not a null pointer, the \fBmbsinit()\fR function determines
whether the object pointed to by \fBps\fR describes an initial conversion state.
.LP
The function \fBmbsinit_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBmbsinit()\fR except the
current locale is ignored and the locale \fIloc\fR is used instead.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
The \fBmbsinit()\fR function returns non-zero if  \fBps\fR is a null pointer,
or if the pointed-to object describes an initial conversion state; otherwise,
it returns \fB0\fR.
.LP
If an \fBmbstate_t\fR object is altered by any of the functions described as
"restartable", and is then used with a different character sequence, or in the
other conversion direction, or with a different \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category setting
than on earlier function calls, the behavior is undefined.  See
\fBenviron\fR(5).
.SH ERRORS
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.LP
The \fBmbstate_t\fR object is used to describe the current conversion state
from a particular character sequence to a wide-character sequence (or vice
versa) under the rules of a particular setting of the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category
of the current locale.
.LP
The initial conversion state corresponds, for a conversion in either direction,
to the beginning of a new character sequence in the initial shift state.  A
zero-valued \fBmbstate_t\fR object is at least one way to describe an initial
conversion state.  A zero-valued \fBmbstate_t\fR object can be used to initiate
conversion involving any character sequence, in any \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category
setting.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.LP
The
.B mbsinit()
function is Standard.  The
.B mbsinit_l()
function is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmbrlen\fR(3C), \fBmbrtowc\fR(3C), \fBmbsrtowcs\fR(3C),
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C),
\fBwcrtomb\fR(3C), \fBwcsrtombs\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
