'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MBSRTOWCS 3C "Jun 28, 2014"
.SH NAME
mbsnrtwocs, mbsnrtowcs_l, mbsrtowcs, mbsrtowcs_l \- convert a character string
to a wide-character string (restartable)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBmbsnrtowcs\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR, \fBconst char **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fInms\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBsize_t\fR \fBmbsrtowcs\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR, \fBconst char **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBmbsnrtowcs_l\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR, \fBconst char **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fInms\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBsize_t\fR \fBmbsrtowcs_l\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR, \fBconst char **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These function converts a sequence of characters, beginning in
the conversion state described by the object pointed to by \fIps\fR, from the
array indirectly pointed to by \fIsrc\fR into a sequence of corresponding
wide-characters. If \fIdst\fR is not a null pointer, the converted characters
are stored into the array pointed to by \fIdst\fR. Conversion continues up to
and including a terminating null character, which is also stored.  Conversion
stops early in either of the following cases:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When a sequence of bytes is encountered that does not form a valid character.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When \fIlen\fR codes have been stored into the array pointed to by \fIdst\fR
(and  \fIdst\fR is not a null pointer).
.RE
.LP
Each conversion takes place as if by a call to the \fBmbrtowc()\fR function.
.LP
If \fIdst\fR is not a null pointer, the pointer object pointed to by \fIsrc\fR
is assigned either a null pointer (if conversion stopped due to reaching a
terminating null character) or the address just past the last character
converted (if any).  If conversion stopped due to reaching a terminating null
character, and if \fIdst\fR is not a null pointer, the resulting state
described is the initial conversion state.
.LP
If \fIps\fR is a null pointer, these functions uses their own
internal \fBmbstate_t\fR object, which is initialized at program startup to the
initial conversion state.  Otherwise, the \fBmbstate_t\fR object pointed to by
\fIps\fR is used to completely describe the current conversion state of the
associated character sequence. The system will behave as if no function defined
in the Reference Manual calls any of these functions.
.LP
The function \fBmbsnrtowcs()\fR behaves identically to \fBmbsrtowcs()\fR,
except the conversion stops after reading \fInms\fR bytes from the
buffer pointed to by \fIsrc\fR.
.LP
The behavior of \fBmbnrtowcs()\fR and \fBmbsrtowcs()\fR functions are
affected by the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category of the
current locale.  See \fBenviron\fR(5). The functions \fBmbsrtowcs_l()\fR and
\fBmbsnrtowcs_l()\fR behave identically to \fBmbsrtowcs()\fR and
\fBmbsnrtowcs()\fR, except that instead of using the current locale, they use
the locale specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If the input conversion encounters a sequence of bytes that do not form a valid
character, an encoding error occurs.  In this case, these
functions store the value of the macro \fBEILSEQ\fR in \fBerrno\fR and return
\fB(size_t)\(mi1\fR; the conversion state is undefined.  Otherwise, they return
the number of characters successfully converted, not including the terminating
null (if any).
.SH ERRORS
.LP
Theses functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIps\fR argument points to an object that contains an invalid conversion
state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid character sequence is detected.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	See below.
.TE

.LP
The
.B mbsnrtowcs()
and
.B mbsrtowcs()
functions are Standard.  The 
.B mbsnrtowcs_l()
and
.B mbsrtowcs_l()
functions are Uncommitted.
.LP
If \fIps\fR is not a null pointer, these functions use the \fBmbstate_t\fR
object pointed to by \fIps\fR and can be used safely in
multithreaded applications, otherwise they use an
internal \fBmbstate_t\fR object and are Unsafe in multithreaded
applications.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmbrtowc\fR(3C), \fBmbsinit\fR(3C), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C),
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale()\fR, \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
