.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2017 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 28, 2017
.Dt MBSTOWCS 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mbstowcs ,
.Nm mbstowcs_l
.Nd convert a multibyte character string to a wide-character string
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdlib.h
.Ft size_t
.Fo mbstowcs
.Fa "wchar_t *restrict pwcs"
.Fa "const char *restrict s"
.Fa "size_t n"
.Fc
.In stdlib.h
.In xlocale.h
.Ft size_t
.Fo mbstowcs_l
.Fa "wchar_t *restrict pwcs"
.Fa "const char *restrict s"
.Fa "size_t n"
.Fa "locale_t loc"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mbstowcs
function converts a multibyte character string
.Fa s
beginning in the initial conversion state into a wide-character string.
If
.Fa pwcs
is not
.Dv NULL ,
the converted characters are stored into array pointed to by
.Fa pwcs .
.Pp
Conversion continues up to and including a terminating null character, which is
also stored, or until
.Fa n
wide-characters have been stored into the array pointed to by
.Fa pwcs .
.Pp
The behavior of
.Fn mbstowcs
function is affected by the
.Ev LC_CTYPE
category of the current locale.
.Pp
The
.Fn mbstowcs_l
function behaves identically to
.Fn mbstowcs ,
except instead of using the current locale, it uses the locale as specified by
.Fa loc .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn mbstowcs
and
.Fn mbstowcs_l
functions return the number of wide-characters successfully converted, not
including the terminating null
.Pq if any ,
or
.Li \-1
if conversion encounters a sequence of bytes that does not form a valid
character.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn mbstowcs
and
.Fn mbstowcs_l
functions will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EILSEQ
An invalid multibyte sequence was detected.
.It Er EINVAL
The conversion state is invalid.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The
.Fn mbstowcs
function is
.Sy Standard .
The
.Fn mbstowcs_l
function is
.Sy Uncommitted .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mbsnrtowcs 3C ,
.Xr mbtowc 3C ,
.Xr newlocale 3C ,
.Xr setlocale 3C ,
.Xr uselocale 3C ,
.Xr wcstombs 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr environ 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
