'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MBTOWC 3C "Jun 23, 2014"
.SH NAME
mbtowc, mbtowc_l \- convert a character to a wide-character code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmbtowc\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIpwc\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmbtowc_l\fR(\fBwchar_t *restrict\fR \fIpwc\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR,
    \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
If \fIs\fR is not a null pointer, \fBmbtowc()\fR determines the number of the
bytes that constitute the character pointed to by \fIs\fR. It then determines
the wide-character code for the value of type \fBwchar_t\fR that corresponds to
that character. (The value of the wide-character code corresponding to the null
byte is 0.) If the character is valid and \fIpwc\fR is not a null pointer,
\fBmbtowc()\fR stores the wide-character code in the object pointed to by
\fIpwc\fR.
.LP
A call with \fIs\fR as a null pointer causes this function to return \fB0\fR.
The behavior of this function is affected by the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category of the
current locale. At most \fIn\fR bytes of the array pointed to by \fIs\fR will
be examined.
.LP
The function \fBmbtowc_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBmbtowc()\fR, except
instead of using the current locale, it uses the locale as specified by
\fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If \fIs\fR is a null pointer, these functions return \fB0\fR. If \fIs\fR is not
a null pointer, they return \fB0\fR (if \fIs\fR points to the null
byte), the number of bytes that constitute the converted character (if the next
\fIn\fR or fewer bytes form a valid character), or  \fB\(mi1\fR and may set
\fBerrno\fR to indicate the error (if they do not form a valid character).
.LP
In no case will the value returned be greater than \fIn\fR or the value of the
\fBMB_CUR_MAX\fR macro.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBmbtowc()\fR and \fBmbtowc_l()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid character sequence is detected.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.LP
The
.B mbtowc()
function is Standard.  The
.B mbtowc_l()
function is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmblen\fR(3C), \fBmbstowcs\fR(3C),
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBwcstombs\fR(3C), \fBwctomb\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
