'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MKTIME 3C "Mar 14, 2016"
.SH NAME
mktime, timegm \- convert a tm structure to a calendar time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <time.h>

\fBtime_t\fR \fBmktime\fR(\fBstruct tm *\fR\fItimeptr\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBtime_t\fR \fBtimegm\fR(\fBstruct tm *\fR\fItimeptr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBmktime()\fR function converts the time represented by the \fBtm\fR
structure pointed to by \fItimeptr\fR into a calendar time  (the number of
seconds since 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970).
.sp
.LP
The \fBtm\fR structure contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int  tm_sec;     /* seconds after the minute [0, 60]  */
int  tm_min;     /* minutes after the hour [0, 59] */
int  tm_hour;    /* hour since midnight [0, 23] */
int  tm_mday;    /* day of the month [1, 31] */
int  tm_mon;     /* months since January [0, 11] */
int  tm_year;    /* years since 1900 */
int  tm_wday;    /* days since Sunday [0, 6] */
int  tm_yday;    /* days since January 1 [0, 365] */
int  tm_isdst;   /* flag for daylight savings time */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In addition to computing the calendar time, \fBmktime()\fR normalizes the
supplied \fBtm\fR structure. The original values of the \fBtm_wday\fR and
\fBtm_yday\fR components of the structure are ignored, and the original values
of the other components are not restricted to the ranges indicated in the
definition of the structure. On successful completion, the values of the
\fBtm_wday\fR and \fBtm_yday\fR components are set appropriately, and the other
components are set to represent the specified calendar time, but with their
values forced to be within the appropriate ranges. The final value of
\fBtm_mday\fR is not set until \fBtm_mon\fR and \fBtm_year\fR are determined.
.sp
.LP
The \fBtm_year\fR member must be for year 1901 or later. Calendar times before
20:45:52 UTC, December 13, 1901 or after 03:14:07 UTC,  January 19, 2038 cannot
be represented. Portable applications should not try to create dates before
00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 1970 or after 00:00:00 UTC, January 1, 2038.
.sp
.LP
The original values of the components may be either greater than or less than
the specified range. For example, a \fBtm_hour\fR of \(mi1 means 1 hour before
midnight, \fBtm_mday\fR of 0 means the day preceding the current month, and
\fBtm_mon\fR of \(mi2 means 2 months before January of \fBtm_year\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fBtm_isdst\fR is positive, the original values are assumed to be in the
alternate timezone. If it turns out that the alternate timezone is not valid
for the computed calendar time, then the components are adjusted to the main
timezone. Likewise, if \fBtm_isdst\fR is zero, the original values are assumed
to be in the main timezone and are converted to the alternate timezone if the
main timezone is not valid. If  \fBtm_isdst\fR is negative, \fBmktime()\fR
attempts to determine whether the alternate timezone is in effect for the
specified time.
.sp
.LP
Local timezone information is used as if \fBmktime()\fR had called
\fBtzset()\fR. See \fBctime\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The \fBtimegm()\fR function is identical to the \fBmktime()\fR function,
except that the \fBtimegm()\fR function ignores both the current time
zone and the \fBtm_isdst\fR member and operates as though the time zone
were set to UTC.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If the calendar time can be represented in an object of type
\fBtime_t\fR, the \fBmktime()\fR and \fBtimegm()\fR functions return the
specified calendar time without changing \fBerrno\fR. If the calendar
time cannot be represented, the function returns the value
(\fBtime_t\fR)\(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBmktime()\fR and \fBtimegm()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOVERFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The date represented by the input \fBtm\fR struct cannot be represented in a
\fBtime_t\fR.  Note that the \fBerrno\fR setting may change if future revisions
to the standards specify a different value.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.LP
The \fBmktime()\fR and \fBtimegm()\fR functions are MT-Safe in
multithreaded applications, as long as no user-defined function directly
modifies one of the following variables: \fBtimezone\fR, \fBaltzone\fR,
\fBdaylight\fR, and \fBtzname\fR. See \fBctime\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
Note that \(mi1 can be a valid return value for the time that is one
second before the Epoch.  The user should clear \fBerrno\fR before
calling \fBmktime()\fR and \fBtimegm()\fR. If \fBmktime()\fR or
\fBtimegm()\fR then returns \(mi1, the user should check \fBerrno\fR to
determine whether or not an error actually occurred.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmktime()\fR and \fBtimegm()\fR functions assume Gregorian dates.
Times before the adoption of the Gregorian calendar will not match
historial records.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample code using \fBmktime()\fR.
.sp
.LP
What day of the week is July 4, 2001?

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <time.h>
static char *const wday[\|] = {
        "Sunday", "Monday", "Tuesday", "Wednesday",
        "Thursday", "Friday", "Saturday", "-unknown-"
};
struct tm time_str;
/*\|.\|.\|.*/
time_str.tm_year	= 2001 - 1900;
time_str.tm_mon = 7 - 1;
time_str.tm_mday = 4;
time_str.tm_hour = 0;
time_str.tm_min = 0;
time_str.tm_sec = 1;
time_str.tm_isdst = \(mi1;
if (mktime(&time_str)== \(mi1)
        time_str.tm_wday=7;
printf("%s\en", wday[time_str.tm_wday]);
.fi
.in -2

.SH BUGS
.LP
The \fBzoneinfo\fR timezone data files do not transition past Tue Jan 19
03:14:07 2038 UTC.  Therefore for 64-bit applications using \fBzoneinfo\fR
timezones, calculations beyond this date may not use the correct offset from
standard time, and could return incorrect values. This affects the 64-bit
versions of \fBmktime()\fR and \fBtimegm()\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBctime\fR(3C), \fBgetenv\fR(3C), \fBTIMEZONE\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
