.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH MUTEX_INIT 3C "Sep 7, 2015"
.SH NAME
mutex_init, mutex_lock, mutex_trylock, mutex_unlock, mutex_consistent,
mutex_destroy \- mutual exclusion locks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <thread.h>
#include <synch.h>

\fBint\fR \fBmutex_init\fR(\fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBint\fR \fItype\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBmutex_lock\fR(\fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBmutex_trylock\fR(\fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBmutex_unlock\fR(\fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBmutex_consistent\fR(\fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBmutex_destroy\fR(\fBmutex_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Mutual exclusion locks (mutexes) prevent multiple threads from simultaneously
executing critical sections of code that access shared data (that is, mutexes
are used to serialize the execution of threads). All mutexes must be global. A
successful call for a mutex lock by way of  \fBmutex_lock()\fR will cause
another thread that is also trying to lock the same mutex to block until the
owner thread unlocks it by way of  \fBmutex_unlock()\fR. Threads within the
same process or within other processes can share mutexes.
.sp
.LP
Mutexes can synchronize threads within the same process or in other  processes.
Mutexes can be used to synchronize threads between processes if the mutexes are
allocated in writable memory and shared among the cooperating processes (see
\fBmmap\fR(2)), and have been initialized for this task.
.SS "Initialize"
.LP
Mutexes are either intra-process or inter-process, depending  upon the argument
passed implicitly or explicitly  to the initialization of that mutex. A
statically allocated mutex does not need to be explicitly  initialized; by
default, a statically allocated mutex is initialized  with all zeros and its
scope is set to be within the calling process.
.sp
.LP
For inter-process synchronization, a mutex needs to be allocated  in memory
shared between these processes. Since the memory for such a mutex must be
allocated dynamically,  the mutex needs to be explicitly initialized using
\fBmutex_init()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBmutex_init()\fR function initializes the mutex referenced by \fImp\fR
with the type specified by  \fItype\fR. Upon successful initialization the
state of the mutex becomes initialized and unlocked. Only the attribute type
\fBLOCK_PRIO_PROTECT\fR uses \fIarg\fR. The \fItype\fR argument must be one of
the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The mutex can synchronize threads only in this process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The mutex can synchronize threads in this process and other processes. The
object initialized with this attribute must be allocated in memory shared
between processes, either in System V shared memory (see  \fBshmop\fR(2)) or in
memory mapped to a file (see  \fBmmap\fR(2)). If the object is not allocated in
such shared memory, it will not be shared between processes.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fItype\fR argument can be augmented by the bitwise-inclusive-\fBOR\fR of
zero or more of the following flags:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The mutex can synchronize threads robustly. At the time of thread or process
death, either by calling \fBthr_exit()\fR or \fBexit()\fR or due to process
abnormal termination, the lock is unlocked if is held by the thread or process.
The next owner of the mutex will acquire it with an error return of
\fBEOWNERDEAD\fR. The application must always check the return value from
\fBmutex_lock()\fR for a mutex of this type. The new owner of this mutex should
then attempt to make the state protected by the mutex consistent, since this
state could have been left inconsistent when the last owner died. If the new
owner is able to make the state consistent, it should call
\fBmutex_consistent()\fR to restore the state of the mutex and then unlock the
mutex. All subsequent calls to \fBmutex_lock()\fR will then behave normally.
Only the new owner can make the mutex consistent. If for any reason the new
owner is not able to make the state consistent, it should not call
\fBmutex_consistent()\fR but should simply unlock the mutex. All waiting
processes will be awakened and all subsequent calls to \fBmutex_lock()\fR will
fail in acquiring the mutex with an error value of \fBENOTRECOVERABLE\fR. If
the thread or process that acquired the lock with \fBEOWNERDEAD\fR terminates
without unlocking the mutex, the next owner will acquire the lock with an error
value of \fBEOWNERDEAD\fR.
.sp
The memory for the object to be initialized with this attribute must be zeroed
before initialization. Any thread or process interested in the robust lock can
call \fBmutex_init()\fR to potentially initialize it, provided that all such
callers of \fBmutex_init()\fR specify the same set of attribute flags. In this
situation, if  \fBmutex_init()\fR is called on a previously initialized robust
mutex, \fBmutex_init()\fR will not reinitialize the mutex and will return the
error value \fBEBUSY\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A thread attempting to relock this mutex without first unlocking it will
succeed in locking the mutex. The mutex must be unlocked as many times as it is
locked.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Unless \fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR is also set, a thread attempting to relock this
mutex without first unlocking it will return with an error rather than
deadlocking itself.  A thread attempting to unlock this mutex without first
owning it will return with an error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOCK_PRIO_INHERIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When a thread is blocking higher priority threads because of owning one or more
mutexes with the \fBLOCK_PRIO_INHERIT\fR attribute, it executes at the higher
of its priority or the priority of the highest priority thread waiting on any
of the mutexes owned by this thread and initialized with this attribute.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLOCK_PRIO_PROTECT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When a thread owns one or more mutexes initialized with the
\fBLOCK_PRIO_PROTECT\fR attribute, it executes at the higher of its priority or
the highest of the priority ceilings of all the mutexes owned by this thread
and initialized with this attribute, regardless of whether other threads are
blocked on any of these mutexes.  When this attribute is specified, \fIarg\fR
must point to an \fBint\fR containing the priority ceiling.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBpthread_mutexattr_getrobust\fR(3C) for more information about robust
mutexes. The \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR attribute is the same as the POSIX
\fBPTHREAD_MUTEX_ROBUST\fR attribute.
.sp
.LP
See \fBpthread_mutexattr_settype\fR(3C) for more information on recursive and
error checking mutex types. The combination (\fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR |
\fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR) is the same as the POSIX \fBPTHREAD_MUTEX_RECURSIVE\fR
type. By itself, \fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR is the same as the \fBPOSIX
PTHREAD_MUTEX_ERRORCHECK\fR type.
.sp
.LP
The \fBLOCK_PRIO_INHERIT\fR attribute is the same as the POSIX
\fBPTHREAD_PRIO_INHERIT\fR attribute. The \fBLOCK_PRIO_PROTECT\fR attribute is
the same as the POSIX \fBPTHREAD_PRIO_PROTECT\fR attribute. See
\fBpthread_mutexattr_getprotocol\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling\fR(3C), and
\fBpthread_mutex_getprioceiling\fR(3C) for a full discussion. The
\fBLOCK_PRIO_INHERIT\fR and \fBLOCK_PRIO_PROTECT\fR attributes are mutually
exclusive. Specifying both of these attributes causes \fBmutex_init()\fR to
fail with \fBEINVAL\fR.
.sp
.LP
Initializing mutexes can also be accomplished  by allocating in zeroed memory
(default), in which case a \fItype\fR of \fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR is assumed. In
general, the following rules apply to mutex initialization:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The same mutex must not be simultaneously initialized by multiple threads.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A mutex lock must not be reinitialized while in use by other threads.
.RE
.sp
.LP
These rules do not apply to \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR mutexes. See the description for
\fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR above. If default mutex attributes are used, the macro
\fBDEFAULTMUTEX\fR can be used to initialize mutexes that are statically
allocated.
.sp
.LP
Default mutex initialization (intra-process):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mutex_t mp;
mutex_init(&mp, USYNC_THREAD, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mutex_t  mp  =  DEFAULTMUTEX;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Customized mutex initialization (inter-process):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mutex_init(&mp, USYNC_PROCESS, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Customized mutex initialization (inter-process robust):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
mutex_init(&mp, USYNC_PROCESS | LOCK_ROBUST, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Statically allocated mutexes can also be initialized with macros specifying
\fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR and/or \fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmutex_t mp = RECURSIVEMUTEX;\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Same as (\fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR | \fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmutex_t mp = ERRORCHECKMUTEX;\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Same as (\fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR | \fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmutex_t mp = RECURSIVE_ERRORCHECKMUTEX;\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Same as (\fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR | \fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR | \fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR)
.RE

.SS "Lock and Unlock"
.LP
A critical section of code is enclosed by  a the call to lock the mutex and the
call to unlock the mutex to protect it from simultaneous access by multiple
threads. Only one thread at a time may possess mutually exclusive access to
the critical section of code that is enclosed by the mutex-locking call and the
mutex-unlocking call, whether the mutex's scope  is intra-process or
inter-process. A thread calling to lock the mutex either gets exclusive  access
to the code starting from the successful locking until its call to unlock the
mutex, or it waits until the mutex is unlocked by the thread that locked it.
.sp
.LP
Mutexes have ownership, unlike semaphores. Although any thread, within the
scope of a mutex, can get an unlocked mutex and lock access to the same
critical section of code, only the thread that locked a mutex should unlock it.
.sp
.LP
If a thread waiting for a mutex receives a signal, upon return from the signal
handler, the thread resumes waiting for the mutex as if there was no interrupt.
A mutex protects code, not data; therefore, strongly bind a mutex  with the
data by putting both within the same structure, or at least within the same
procedure.
.sp
.LP
A call to \fBmutex_lock()\fR locks the mutex object referenced by \fImp\fR. If
the mutex is already locked, the calling thread blocks until the mutex is
freed; this will return with the mutex object referenced by \fImp\fR in the
locked state with the calling thread as its owner. If the current owner of a
mutex tries to relock the mutex, it will result in deadlock.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_trylock()\fR function is the same as \fBmutex_lock()\fR,
respectively, except that if the mutex object referenced by \fImp\fR is locked
(by any thread, including the current thread), the call returns immediately
with an error.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_unlock()\fR function are called by the owner of the mutex object
referenced by \fImp\fR to release it. The mutex must be locked and the calling
thread must be the one that last locked the mutex (the owner). If there are
threads blocked on the mutex object referenced by \fImp\fR when
\fBmutex_unlock()\fR is called, the \fImp\fR is freed, and the scheduling
policy will determine which thread gets the mutex. If the calling thread is not
the owner of the lock, no error status is returned, and the behavior of the
program is undefined.
.SS "Destroy"
.LP
The \fBmutex_destroy()\fR function destroys the mutex object referenced by
\fImp\fR. The mutex object becomes uninitialized. The space used by the
destroyed mutex variable is not freed. It needs to be explicitly reclaimed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If successful, these functions return \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is
returned.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBmutex_init()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fItype\fR is invalid, or the \fBLOCK_PRIO_INHERIT\fR
and \fBLOCK_PRIO_PROTECT\fR attributes are both specified.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_init()\fR function will fail for  \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR type mutex if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The mutex pointed to by  \fImp\fR was previously initialized and has not yet
been destroyed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The mutex pointed to by \fImp\fR was previously initialized with a different
set of attribute flags.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_trylock()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The mutex pointed to by \fImp\fR is already locked.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_lock()\fR and \fBmutex_trylock()\fR functions will fail for a
\fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR mutex if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The mutex could not be acquired because the maximum number of recursive locks
for the mutex has been reached.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_lock()\fR function will fail for a \fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR and
non-\fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR mutex if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDEADLK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The caller already owns the mutex.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_lock()\fR function may fail for a non-\fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR and
non-\fBLOCK_RECURSIVE\fR mutex if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDEADLK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The caller already owns the mutex.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_unlock()\fR function will fail for a \fBLOCK_ERRORCHECK\fR mutex
if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The caller does not own the mutex.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_lock()\fR or \fBmutex_trylock()\fR functions will fail for
\fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR type mutex if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOWNERDEAD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The last owner of this mutex died while holding the mutex. This mutex is now
owned by the caller. The caller must now attempt to make the state protected by
the mutex consistent. If it is able to clean up the state, then it should
restore the state of the mutex by calling \fBmutex_consistent()\fR and unlock
the mutex. Subsequent calls to \fBmutex_lock()\fR will behave normally, as
before. If the caller is not able to clean up the state,
\fBmutex_consistent()\fR should not be called but the mutex should be unlocked.
Subsequent calls to \fBmutex_lock()\fR will fail to acquire the mutex,
returning with the error value \fBENOTRECOVERABLE\fR. If the owner who acquired
the lock with  \fBEOWNERDEAD\fR dies, the next owner will acquire the lock with
\fBEOWNERDEAD\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTRECOVERABLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The mutex trying to be acquired was protecting the state that has been left
unrecoverable when the mutex's last owner could not make the state protected by
the mutex consistent. The mutex has not been acquired. This condition occurs
when the lock was previously acquired with \fBEOWNERDEAD\fR and the owner was
not able to clean up the state and unlocked the mutex without calling
\fBmutex_consistent()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_consistent()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The caller does not own the mutex or the mutex is not a \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR mutex
having an inconsistent state (\fBEOWNERDEAD\fR).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Single Gate"
.LP
The following example uses one global mutex as a gate-keeper to permit each
thread exclusive sequential access to the code within the user-defined
function "change_global_data." This type of synchronization will protect the
state of shared data,  but it also prohibits parallelism.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* cc thisfile.c -lthread */
#define _REENTRANT
#include <stdio.h>
#include <thread.h>
#define NUM_THREADS 12
void *change_global_data(void *);     /*  for thr_create()   */
main(int argc,char * argv[])    {
       int i=0;
       for (i=0; i< NUM_THREADS; i++)	{
               thr_create(NULL, 0, change_global_data, NULL, 0, NULL);
       }
       while ((thr_join(NULL, NULL, NULL) == 0));
}

void * change_global_data(void *null){
       static mutex_t   Global_mutex;
       static int       Global_data = 0;
       mutex_lock(&Global_mutex);
       Global_data++;
       sleep(1);
       printf("%d is global data\en",Global_data);
       mutex_unlock(&Global_mutex);
       return NULL;
}
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Multiple Instruction Single Data"
.LP
The previous example, the mutex, the code it owns, and the data it protects was
enclosed in one function. The next example uses C++ features to accommodate
many functions that use just one mutex to protect one data:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* CC thisfile.c -lthread   use C++ to compile*/

#define _REENTRANT
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <thread.h>
#include <errno.h>
#include <iostream.h>
#define NUM_THREADS 16
void *change_global_data(void *);     /*  for thr_create()   */

class Mutected {
       private:
               static mutex_t      Global_mutex;
               static int          Global_data;
       public:
               static int          add_to_global_data(void);
               static int          subtract_from_global_data(void);
};

int Mutected::Global_data = 0;
mutex_t Mutected::Global_mutex;

int Mutected::add_to_global_data()  {
       mutex_lock(&Global_mutex);	
       Global_data++;
       mutex_unlock(&Global_mutex);	
       return Global_data;
}

int Mutected::subtract_from_global_data()   {
       mutex_lock(&Global_mutex);	
       Global_data--;
       mutex_unlock(&Global_mutex);
       return Global_data;
}

void
main(int argc,char * argv[])  {
       int i=0;
       for (i=0;i< NUM_THREADS;i++)  {
            thr_create(NULL,0,change_global_data,NULL,0,NULL);
       }
       while ((thr_join(NULL,NULL,NULL) == 0));
}

void * change_global_data(void *)	{
       static int switcher = 0;
       if ((switcher++ % 3) == 0)   /* one-in-three threads subtracts */
               cout << Mutected::subtract_from_global_data() << endl;	
       else
               cout << Mutected::add_to_global_data() << endl;		
       return NULL;
}
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Interprocess Locking"
.LP
A mutex can protect data that is shared among processes. The mutex would need
to be initialized as  \fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR. One process initializes the
process-shared mutex and writes it to a file to be  mapped into memory by all
cooperating processes (see \fBmmap\fR(2)). Afterwards, other independent
processes can run the same program (whether concurrently or not) and share
mutex-protected data.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* cc thisfile.c -lthread */
/* To execute, run the command line "a.out 0 &; a.out 1" */

#define _REENTRANT
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/mman.h>
#include <sys/stat.h>
#include <fcntl.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <thread.h>
#define INTERPROCESS_FILE "ipc-sharedfile"
#define NUM_ADDTHREADS 12
#define NUM_SUBTRACTTHREADS 10
#define INCREMENT '0'
#define DECREMENT '1'
typedef struct {
               mutex_t     Interprocess_mutex;
               int         Interprocess_data;
} buffer_t;
buffer_t *buffer;

void *add_interprocess_data(), *subtract_interprocess_data();
void create_shared_memory(), test_argv();
int zeroed[sizeof(buffer_t)];
int ipc_fd, i=0;

void
main(int argc,char * argv[]){
    test_argv(argv[1]);

    switch (*argv[1])  {
    case INCREMENT:
         /* Initializes the process-shared mutex */
         /* Should be run prior to running a DECREMENT process */
         create_shared_memory();
         ipc_fd = open(INTERPROCESS_FILE, O_RDWR);
         buffer = (buffer_t *)mmap(NULL, sizeof(buffer_t),
             PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE, MAP_SHARED, ipc_fd, 0);
         buffer->Interprocess_data = 0;
         mutex_init(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex, USYNC_PROCESS,0);
         for (i=0; i< NUM_ADDTHREADS; i++)
         thr_create(NULL, 0, add_interprocess_data, argv[1],
             0, NULL);
         break;

    case DECREMENT:
         /* Should be run after the INCREMENT process has run. */
         while(ipc_fd = open(INTERPROCESS_FILE, O_RDWR)) == -1)
             sleep(1);
         buffer = (buffer_t *)mmap(NULL, sizeof(buffer_t),
             PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE, MAP_SHARED, ipc_fd, 0);
         for (i=0; i< NUM_SUBTRACTTHREADS; i++)
         thr_create(NULL, 0, subtract_interprocess_data, argv[1],
             0, NULL);
         break;
    } /* end switch */

    while ((thr_join(NULL,NULL,NULL) == 0));
} /* end main */

void *add_interprocess_data(char argv_1[]){
    mutex_lock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
    buffer->Interprocess_data++;
    sleep(2);
    printf("%d is add-interprocess data, and %c is argv1\en",
        buffer->Interprocess_data, argv_1[0]);
    mutex_unlock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
    return NULL;
}

void *subtract_interprocess_data(char argv_1[])	{
    mutex_lock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
    buffer->Interprocess_data--;
    sleep(2);
    printf("%d is subtract-interprocess data, and %c is argv1\en",
        buffer->Interprocess_data, argv_1[0]);
    mutex_unlock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
    return NULL;
}

void create_shared_memory(){
    int i;
    ipc_fd = creat(INTERPROCESS_FILE, O_CREAT | O_RDWR );
    for (i=0; i<sizeof(buffer_t); i++){
        zeroed[i] = 0;
        write(ipc_fd, &zeroed[i],2);
    }
    close(ipc_fd);
    chmod(INTERPROCESS_FILE, S_IRWXU | S_IRWXG | S_IRWXO);
}

void test_argv(char argv1[])   {
    if (argv1 == NULL)   {
    printf("use 0 as arg1 for initial process\en \e
    or use 1 as arg1 for the second process\en");
    exit(NULL);
    }
}
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Solaris Interprocess Robust Locking"
.LP
A mutex can protect data that is shared among processes robustly. The mutex
would need to be initialized as \fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR | \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR. One
process initializes the robust process-shared mutex and writes it to a file to
be mapped into memory by all cooperating processes (see \fBmmap\fR(2)).
Afterwards, other independent processes can run the same program (whether
concurrently or not) and share mutex-protected data.
.sp
.LP
The following example shows how to use a \fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR |
\fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR type mutex.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* cc thisfile.c -lthread */
 /* To execute, run the command line "a.out & a.out 1" */
 #include <sys/types.h>
 #include <sys/mman.h>
 #include <fcntl.h>
 #include <stdio.h>
 #include <thread.h>
 #define INTERPROCESS_FILE "ipc-sharedfile"
 typedef struct {
           mutex_t   Interprocess_mutex;
           int       Interprocess_data;
 } buffer_t;
 buffer_t *buffer;
 int make_date_consistent();
 void create_shared_memory();
 int zeroed[sizeof(buffer_t)];
 int ipc_fd, i=0;
 main(int argc,char * argv[])  {
     int rc;
     if (argc > 1) {
         while((ipc_fd = open(INTERPROCESS_FILE, O_RDWR)) == -1)
             sleep(1);
         buffer = (buffer_t *)mmap(NULL, sizeof(buffer_t),
                   PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE, MAP_SHARED, ipc_fd, 0);
         mutex_init(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex,
                     USYNC_PROCESS | LOCK_ROBUST, 0);
     } else {
         create_shared_memory();
         ipc_fd = open(INTERPROCESS_FILE, O_RDWR);
         buffer = (buffer_t *)mmap(NULL, sizeof(buffer_t),
               PROT_READ | PROT_WRITE, MAP_SHARED, ipc_fd, 0);
         buffer->Interprocess_data = 0;
         mutex_init(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex,
                     USYNC_PROCESS | LOCK_ROBUST, 0);
     }
     for(;;) {
         rc = mutex_lock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
         switch (rc) {
             case EOWNERDEAD:
               /*
                * The lock is acquired.
                * The last owner died holding the lock.
                * Try to make the state associated with
                * the mutex consistent.
                * If successful, make the robust lock consistent.
                */
               if (make_data_consistent())
                   mutex_consistent(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
                   mutex_unlock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
                   break;
             case ENOTRECOVERABLE:
               /*
                * The lock is not acquired.
                * The last owner got the mutex with EOWNERDEAD
                * and failed to make the data consistent.
                * There is no way to recover, so just exit.
                */
               exit(1);
             case 0:
               /*
                * There is no error - data is consistent.
                * Do something with data.
                */
               mutex_unlock(&buffer->Interprocess_mutex);
               break;
        }
   }
} /* end main */
void create_shared_memory() {
      int i;
      ipc_fd = creat(INTERPROCESS_FILE, O_CREAT | O_RDWR );
      for (i=0; i<sizeof(buffer_t); i++) {
           zeroed[i] = 0;
           write(ipc_fd, &zeroed[i],2);
      }
      close(ipc_fd);
      chmod(INTERPROCESS_FILE, S_IRWXU | S_IRWXG | S_IRWXO);
 }

 /* return 1 if able to make data consistent, otherwise 0. */
 int make_data_consistent () {
       buffer->Interprocess_data = 0;
       return (1);
 }
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Dynamically Allocated Mutexes"
.LP
The following example allocates and frees memory in which a mutex is embedded.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct record {
        int field1;
        int field2;
        mutex_t m;
} *r;
r = malloc(sizeof(struct record));
mutex_init(&r->m, USYNC_THREAD, NULL);
/*
  * The fields in this record are accessed concurrently
  * by acquiring the embedded lock.
  */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The thread execution in this example is as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIThread 1 executes:\fR                 \fIThread 2 executes:\fR

\&...                                ...
mutex_lock(&r->m);                 mutex_lock(&r->m);
r->field1++;                       localvar = r->field1;
mutex_unlock(&r->m);               mutex_unlock(&r->m);
\&...                                ...
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Later, when a thread decides to free the memory pointed to by  \fIr\fR, the
thread  should call  \fBmutex_destroy\fR(\|) on the mutexes in this memory.
.sp
.LP
In the following example, the main thread can do a  \fBthr_join\fR(\|) on both
of the above threads. If there are no other threads using the memory in
\fIr\fR, the main thread can now safely free \fIr\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
for (i = 0; i < 2; i++)
       thr_join(0, 0, 0);
mutex_destroy(&r->m);   /* first destroy mutex */
free(r);                /* then free memory */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If the mutex is not destroyed, the program could have memory leaks.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmmap\fR(2), \fBshmop\fR(2), \fBpthread_mutexattr_getprioceiling\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_mutexattr_getprotocol\fR(3C), \fBpthread_mutexattr_getrobust\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_mutexattr_gettype\fR(3C), \fBpthread_mutex_getprioceiling\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_mutex_init\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBmutex\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
Previous releases of Solaris provided the \fBUSYNC_PROCESS_ROBUST\fR mutex
type. This type is now deprecated but is still supported for source and binary
compatibility. When passed to \fBmutex_init()\fR, it is transformed into
(\fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR | \fBLOCK_ROBUST\fR). The former method for restoring a
\fBUSYNC_PROCESS_ROBUST\fR mutex to a consistent state was to reinitialize it
by calling \fBmutex_init()\fR. This method is still supported for source and
binary compatibility, but the proper method is to call
\fBmutex_consistent()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBUSYNC_PROCESS_ROBUST\fR type permitted an alternate error value,
\fBELOCKUNMAPPED\fR, to be returned by \fBmutex_lock()\fR if the process
containing a locked robust mutex unmapped the memory containing the mutex or
performed one of the \fBexec\fR(2) functions. The \fBELOCKUNMAPPED\fR error
value implies all of the consequences of the \fBEOWNERDEAD\fR error value and
as such is just a synonym for \fBEOWNERDEAD\fR. For full source and binary
compatibility, the \fBELOCKUNMAPPED\fR error value is still returned from
\fBmutex_lock()\fR in these circumstances, but only if the mutex was
initialized with the \fBUSYNC_PROCESS_ROBUST\fR type. Otherwise,
\fBEOWNERDEAD\fR is returned in these circumstances.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmutex_lock()\fR, \fBmutex_unlock()\fR, and \fBmutex_trylock()\fR
functions do not validate the mutex type. An uninitialized mutex or a mutex
with an invalid type does not return \fBEINVAL\fR. Interfaces for mutexes with
an invalid type have unspecified behavior.
.sp
.LP
Uninitialized mutexes that are allocated locally could contain junk data. Such
mutexes need to be initialized using \fBmutex_init()\fR.
.sp
.LP
By default, if multiple threads are waiting for a mutex, the order of
acquisition is undefined.
