.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.TH NL_LANGINFO 3C "Jun 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
nl_langinfo, nl_langinfo_l \- language information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <langinfo.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBnl_langinfo\fR(\fBnl_item\fR \fIitem\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBnl_langinfo_l\fR(\fBnl_item\fR \fIitem\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBnl_langinfo()\fR function returns a pointer to a null-terminated string
containing information relevant to a particular language or cultural area
defined in the programs locale. The manifest constant names and values of
\fIitem\fR are defined by <\fBlanginfo.h\fR>. For example:
.IP
\fBnl_langinfo\fR(\fBABDAY_1\fR);
.LP
would return a pointer to the string "\fBDim\fR" if the identified language was
French and a French locale was correctly installed; or "\fBSun\fR" if the
identified language was English.
.LP
The function \fBnl_langinfo_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBnl_langinfo()\fR,
except instead of acting in the current locale, it instead acts in the locale
specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If the locale has not been set or is invalid, or if  data for a
supported language is either not available, or if \fIitem\fR is not defined
therein, then these functions return a pointer to the corresponding string
in the C locale. In all locales, they return a pointer to an
empty string if \fIitem\fR contains an invalid setting.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBlanginfo.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBnl_types.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.LP
The array pointed to by the return value should not be modified by the program.
Subsequent calls to these functions may overwrite the array.
