.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH POSIX_MADVISE 3C "Jul 14, 2008"
.SH NAME
posix_madvise \- memory advisory information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_madvise\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBint\fR \fIadvice\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_madvise()\fR function advises the system on the expected behavior
of the application with respect to the data in the memory starting at address
\fIaddr\fR, and continuing for \fIlen\fR bytes. The system may use this
information to optimize handling of the specified data. The
\fBposix_madvise()\fR function has no effect on the semantics of access to
memory in the specified range, although it may affect the performance of
access.
.sp
.LP
The advice to be applied to the memory range is specified by the \fIadvice\fR
parameter and may be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_MADV_NORMAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application has no advice to give on its behavior with
respect to the specified range. It is the default characteristic if no advice
is given for a range of memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_MADV_SEQUENTIAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified range
sequentially from lower addresses to higher addresses.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_MADV_RANDOM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified range in a
random order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_MADV_WILLNEED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified range in the
near future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_MADV_DONTNEED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects that it will not access the specified
range in the near future.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These values are defined in \fB<sys/mman.h>\fR
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBposix_madvise()\fR returns zero. Otherwise, an
error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_madvise()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIadvice\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Addresses in the range starting at \fIaddr\fR and continuing for \fIlen\fR
bytes are partly or completely outside the range allowed for the address space
of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_madvise()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIlen\fR is zero.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmmap\fR(2), \fBmadvise\fR(3C), posix_madvise(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
