'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POSIX_FADVISE 3C "Jul 14, 2008"
.SH NAME
posix_fadvise \- file advisory information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fcntl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_fadvise\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIoffset\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIlen\fR, \fBint\fR \fIadvice\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_fadvise()\fR function advises the system on the expected behavior
of the application with respect to the data in the file associated with the
open file descriptor, \fIfd\fR, starting at \fIoffset\fR and continuing for
\fIlen\fR bytes. The specified range need not currently exist in the file. If
\fIlen\fR is zero, all data following offset is specified. The system may use
this information to optimize handling of the specified data. The
\fBposix_fadvise()\fR function has no effect on the semantics of other
operations on the specified data, although it may affect the performance of
other operations.
.sp
.LP
The advice to be applied to the data is specified by the \fIadvice\fR parameter
and may be one of the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_FADV_NORMAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application has no advice to give on its behavior with
respect to the specified data. It is the default characteristic if no advice is
given for an open file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_FADV_SEQUENTIAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data
sequentially from lower offsets to higher offsets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_FADV_RANDOM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data in a random
order.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_FADV_WILLNEED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data in the near
future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_FADV_DONTNEED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects that it will not access the specified
data in the near future.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOSIX_FADV_NOREUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Specifies that the application expects to access the specified data once and
then not reuse it thereafter.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These values are defined in \fB<fcntl.h>\fR
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBposix_fadvise()\fR returns zero. Otherwise, an
error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_fadvise()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfd\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIadvice\fR is invalid, or the value of \fIlen\fR is less than
zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESPIPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfd\fR argument is associated with a pipe or FIFO.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_fadvise()\fR function has a transitional interface for 64-bit file
offsets. See \fBlf64\fR(5).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBposix_madvise\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
