'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POSIX_SPAWN_FILE_ACTIONS_ADDDUP2 3C "Jan 30, 2004"
.SH NAME
posix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2 \- add dup2 action to spawn file actions
object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR(
     \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_t *\fR\fIfile_actions\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fInewfildes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2()\fR function adds a \fBdup2\fR(3C)
action to the object referenced by \fIfile_actions\fR that causes the file
descriptor \fIfildes\fR to be duplicated as \fInewfildes\fR (as if
\fBdup2\fR(\fIfildes\fR, \fInewfildes\fR) had been called) when a new process
is spawned using this file actions object.
.sp
.LP
A spawn file actions object is as defined in
\fBposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2()\fR
function returns 0. Otherwise, an error number is be returned to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIfildes\fR or \fInewfildes\fR is negative or greater
than or equal to {\fBOPEN_MAX\fR}.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Insufficient memory exists to add to the spawn file actions object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIfile_actions\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
It is not considered an error for the \fIfildes\fR argument passed to
\fBposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2()\fR to specify a file descriptor for which
the specified operation could not be performed at the time of the call. Any
such error will be detected when the associated file actions object is later
used during a \fBposix_spawn\fR(3C) or \fBposix_spawnp\fR(3C) operation.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdup2\fR(3C), \fBposix_spawn\fR(3C),
\fBposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR(3C),
\fBposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
