'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POSIX_SPAWN_FILE_ACTIONS_DESTROY 3C "Jan 30, 2004"
.SH NAME
posix_spawn_file_actions_destroy, posix_spawn_file_actions_init \- destroy and
initialize spawn file actions object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy\fR(
     \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_t *\fR\fIfile_actions\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_init\fR(
     \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_t *\fR\fIfile_actions\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy()\fR function destroys the object
referenced by \fIfile_actions\fR. The object becomes, in effect, uninitialized.
An implementation can cause \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy()\fR to set the
object referenced by file_actions to an invalid value. A destroyed spawn file
actions object can be reinitialized using
\fBposix_spawn_file_actions_init()\fR. The results of otherwise referencing the
object after it has been destroyed are undefined.
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_init()\fR function initializes the object
referenced by \fIfile_actions\fR to contain no file actions for
\fBposix_spawn\fR(3C) or \fBposix_spawnp\fR(3C) to perform.
.sp
.LP
A spawn file actions object is as defined in
\fBposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
The effect of initializing an already initialized spawn file actions object is
undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error
number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_init()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the spawn file actions object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy()\fR function will may if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIfile_actions\fR is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBposix_spawn\fR(3C), \fBposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
