.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH POSIX_SPAWNATTR_GETFLAGS 3C "Sep 25, 2008"
.SH NAME
posix_spawnattr_getflags, posix_spawnattr_setflags \- get and set spawn-flags
attribute of spawn attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>

\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_getflags\fR(\fBconst posix_spawnattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBshort *restrict\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBposix_spawnattr_setflags\fR(\fBposix_spawnattr_t *\fR \fIattr\fR, \fBshort\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawnattr_getflags()\fR function obtains the value of the
\fIspawn-flags\fR attribute from the attributes object referenced by
\fIattr\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawnattr_setflags()\fR function sets the \fIspawn-flags\fR
attribute in an initialized attributes object referenced by \fIattr\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fIspawn-flags\fR attribute is used to indicate which process attributes
are to be changed in the new process image when invoking \fBposix_spawn\fR(3C)
or \fBposix_spawnp\fR(3C). It is the bitwise inclusive-OR of zero or more of
the following flags:
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_RESETIDS\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_SETPGROUP\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_SETSIGDEF\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_SETSIGMASK\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_SETSCHEDPARAM\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_SETSCHEDULER\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_NOSIGCHLD_NP\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_WAITPID_NP\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBPOSIX_SPAWN_NOEXECERR_NP\fR
.in -2
.sp
.LP
These flags are defined in \fB<spawn.h>\fR. The default value of this attribute
is as if no flags were set.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBposix_spawnattr_getflags()\fR returns 0 and
stores the value of the spawn-flags attribute of attr into the object
referenced by the flags parameter. Otherwise, an error number is returned to
indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBposix_spawnattr_setflags()\fR returns 0.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIattr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBposix_spawnattr_setflags()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of the attribute being set is not valid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBposix_spawn\fR(3C), \fBposix_spawnattr_destroy\fR(3C),
\fBposix_spawnattr_getpgroup\fR(3C), \fBposix_spawnattr_getschedparam\fR(3C),
\fBposix_spawnattr_getschedpolicy\fR(3C),
\fBposix_spawnattr_getsigdefault\fR(3C), \fBposix_spawnattr_getsigmask\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
