'\" te
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2015 Circonus, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PSIGNAL 3C "Aug 14, 2014"
.SH NAME
psignal, psiginfo \- system signal messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <siginfo.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBpsignal\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpsiginfo\fR(\fBconst siginfo_t *\fR\fIpinfo\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpsignal()\fR and \fBpsiginfo()\fR functions produce messages on the
standard error output describing a signal.  The \fIsig\fR argument is a signal
that may have been  passed as the first argument to a signal handler.  The
\fIpinfo\fR argument is a pointer to a \fBsiginfo\fR structure that may have
been passed as the second argument to an enhanced signal handler.  See
\fBsigaction\fR(2). The argument string \fIs\fR is printed first, followed by a
colon and a blank, followed by the message and a \fBNEWLINE\fR character. If
\fBs\fR is the value \fBNULL\fR or an empty string, then nothing is printed for
the user's string and the colon and blank are omitted.
.SH USAGE
.LP
Messages printed from these functions are in the native language specified by
the \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR locale category.  See \fBsetlocale\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBsigaction\fR(2), \fBgettext\fR(3C), \fBperror\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C),
\fBsiginfo.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5)
