.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc. 
.\"
.Dd "Dec 22, 2014"
.Dt PTHREAD_MUTEX_CONSISTENT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pthread_mutex_consistent
.Nd mark state protected by robust mutex as consistent
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In pthread.h
.Ft int
.Fo pthread_mutex_consistent
.Fa "pthread_mutex_t *mutex"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pthread_mutex_consistent
function is used to indicate that a robust lock that is in an
inconsistent state no longer is.
.Lp
A robust lock enters into an inconsistent state when a process or thread
holding a robust lock exits, such as by calling
.Xr exit 2
or
.Xr thr_exit 3C ,
or crashes without unlocking the lock. At that point, if another process
or thread is currently in a call, or calls
.Xr pthread_mutex_lock 3C ,
it will obtain the lock; however, the error code
.Er EOWNERDEAD
will be returned. In such cases, that thread will own the lock and must
check and clean up any inconsistent state that is protected by the lock.
When finished, it must call
.Fn pthread_mutex_consistent
to indicate that it is in a consistent state again.
.Lp
If a process or thread obtains a robust lock while it is in an
inconsistent state and it crashes or terminates before marking the lock
as consistent, the next process or thread that obtains the lock will
receive
.Er EOWNERDEAD .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn pthread_mutex_consistent
returns zero and marks
.Va mutex
as consistent. Callers of
.Fn pthread_mutex_lock
will not have
.Er EOWNERDEAD
returned until another process or thread exits without unlocking. Upon
failure, an error will be returned which corresponds to one of the
errors listed below.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn pthread_mutex_consistent
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
.Va mutex
is an uninitialized mutex, not a robust mutex, or not in an inconsistent
state.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_mutex_destroy 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutex_init 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutex_lock 3C ,
.Xr pthread_mutexattr_getrobust 3C ,
.Xr pthread 3HEAD ,
.Xr libpthread 3LIB ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr mutex 5
