.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_GETSCHEDPARAM 3C "Apr 1, 2008"
.SH NAME
pthread_getschedparam, pthread_setschedparam \- access dynamic thread
scheduling parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_getschedparam\fR(\fBpthread_t\fR \fIthread\fR, \fBint *restrict\fR \fIpolicy\fR,
     \fBstruct sched_param *restrict\fR \fIparam\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_setschedparam\fR(\fBpthread_t\fR \fIthread\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpolicy\fR,
     \fBconst struct sched_param *\fR\fIparam\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_getschedparam()\fR and \fBpthread_setschedparam()\fR functions
allow the scheduling policy and scheduling parameters of individual threads
within a multithreaded process to be retrieved and set. Supported policies are
:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCHED_OTHER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
traditional time-sharing scheduling class
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCHED_FIFO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
real-time class: run to completion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCHED_RR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
real-time class: round-robin
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCHED_IA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
interactive time-sharing class
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCHED_FSS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
fair-share scheduling class
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCHED_FX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
fixed priority scheduling class
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBpthreads\fR(5). The affected scheduling parameter is the
\fIsched_priority\fR member of the \fBsched_param\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_getschedparam()\fR function retrieves the scheduling policy and
scheduling parameters for the thread whose thread \fBID\fR is given by
\fIthread\fR and stores those values in \fIpolicy\fR and \fIparam\fR,
respectively. The priority value returned from \fBpthread_getschedparam()\fR is
the value specified by the most recent \fBpthread_setschedparam()\fR or
\fBpthread_create()\fR call affecting the target thread, and does not reflect
any temporary adjustments to its priority as a result of any priority
inheritance or ceiling functions. The \fBpthread_setschedparam()\fR function
sets the scheduling policy and associated scheduling parameters for the thread
whose thread  \fBID\fR is given by \fIthread\fR to the policy and associated
parameters provided in \fIpolicy\fR and \fIparam\fR, respectively.
.sp
.LP
If the \fBpthread_setschedparam()\fR function fails, no scheduling parameters
will be changed  for the target thread.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the \fBpthread_getschedparam()\fR and
\fBpthread_setschedparam()\fR functions return  \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error
number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_getschedparam()\fR and \fBpthread_gsetschedparam()\fR functions
will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The value specified by \fIthread\fR does not refer to an existing thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_setschedparam()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIpolicy\fR or one of the scheduling parameters
associated with the scheduling policy \fIpolicy\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The caller does not have the appropriate permission to set either the
scheduling parameters or the scheduling policy of the specified thread.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_attr_init\fR(3C), \fBsched_getparam\fR(3C),
\fBsched_get_priority_max\fR(3C), \fBsched_get_priority_max\fR(3C),
\fBsched_get_priority_min\fR(3C), \fBsched_setparam\fR(3C),
\fBsched_getscheduler\fR(3C), \fBsched_setscheduler\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpthreads\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
