.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_ONCE 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_once \- initialize dynamic package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]

#include <pthread.h>
\fBpthread_once_t\fR \fIonce_control\fR = \fBPTHREAD_ONCE_INIT\fR;

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_once\fR(\fBpthread_once_t *\fR\fIonce_control\fR,
     \fBvoid (*\fR\fIinit_routine\fR)(\fBvoid\fR));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If any thread in a process with a \fIonce_control\fR parameter makes a call to
\fBpthread_once()\fR, the first call will summon the \fBinit_routine()\fR, but
subsequent calls will not. The \fIonce_control\fR parameter determines whether
the associated initialization routine has been called. The \fBinit_routine()\fR
is complete upon return of \fBpthread_once()\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_once()\fR is not a cancellation point; however, if the function
\fBinit_routine()\fR is a cancellation point and is canceled, the effect on
\fIonce_control\fR is the same as if \fBpthread_once()\fR had never been
called.
.sp
.LP
The constant \fBPTHREAD_ONCE_INIT\fR is defined in the \fB<pthread.h>\fR
header.
.sp
.LP
If \fIonce_control\fR has automatic storage duration or is not initialized by
\fBPTHREAD_ONCE_INIT\fR, the behavior of \fBpthread_once()\fR is undefined.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpthread_once()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an
error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
\fIonce_control\fR or  \fIinit_routine\fR is \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris threads do not offer this functionality.
