.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_EXIT 3C "Nov 2, 2007"
.SH NAME
pthread_exit \- terminate calling thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBpthread_exit\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIvalue_ptr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_exit()\fR function terminates the calling thread, in a similar
way that \fBexit\fR(3C) terminates the calling process. If the thread is not
detached, the exit status specified by  \fIvalue_ptr\fR is made  available to
any successful join with the terminating thread. See \fBpthread_join\fR(3C).
Any cancellation cleanup handlers that have been pushed and not yet popped are
popped in the reverse order that they were pushed and then executed. After all
cancellation cleanup handlers have been executed, if the thread has any
thread-specific data, appropriate destructor functions will be called in an
unspecified order. Thread termination does not release any application visible
process resources, including, but not limited to, mutexes and file descriptors,
nor does it perform any process level cleanup actions, including, but not
limited to, calling any \fBatexit()\fR routines that might exist.
.sp
.LP
An exiting thread runs with all signals blocked. All thread termination
functions, including cancellation cleanup handlers and thread-specific data
destructor functions, are called with all signals blocked.
.sp
.LP
An implicit call to \fBpthread_exit()\fR is made when a thread other than the
thread in which \fBmain()\fR was first invoked returns from the start routine
that was used to create it. The function's return value serves as the thread's
exit status.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of \fBpthread_exit()\fR is undefined if called from a cancellation
cleanup handler or destructor function that was invoked as a result of either
an implicit or explicit call to \fBpthread_exit()\fR.
.sp
.LP
After a thread has terminated, the result of access to local (auto) variables
of the thread is undefined. Thus, references to local variables of the exiting
thread should not be used for the \fBpthread_exit()\fR \fIvalue_ptr\fR
parameter value.
.sp
.LP
The process exits with an exit status of  \fB0\fR after the last thread has
been terminated. The behavior is as if the implementation called \fBexit()\fR
with a \fB0\fR argument at thread termination time.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_exit()\fR function cannot return to its caller.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBexit\fR(3C), \fBpthread_cancel\fR(3C), \fBpthread_create\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_join\fR(3C), \fBpthread_key_create\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
