.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_RWLOCKATTR_GETPSHARED 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_rwlockattr_getpshared, pthread_rwlockattr_setpshared \- get or set
process-shared attribute of read-write lock attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_rwlockattr_getpshared\fR(
     \fBconst pthread_rwlockattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBint *restrict\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_rwlockattr_setpshared\fR(\fBpthread_rwlockattr_t *\fR\fIattr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute is set to  \fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED\fR to
permit a read-write lock to be operated upon by any thread that has access to
the memory where the read-write lock is allocated,  even if the read-write lock
is allocated in memory that is shared by multiple processes. If the
\fIprocess-shared\fR attribute is  \fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE,\fR the
read-write lock will only be operated upon by threads created within the same
process as the thread that initialised the read-write lock; if threads of
differing processes attempt to operate on such a read-write lock, the behaviour
is undefined. The default value of the \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute is
\fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE.\fR
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_rwlockattr_getpshared()\fR function obtains the value of the
\fIprocess-shared\fR attribute from the initialised attributes object
referenced by \fIattr\fR. The  \fBpthread_rwlockattr_setpshared()\fR function
is used to set the \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute in an initialised attributes
object referenced by attr.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the  \fBpthread_rwlockattr_setpshared()\fR function returns
\fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the  \fBpthread_rwlockattr_getpshared()\fR returns
\fB0\fR and stores the value of the \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute of
\fIattr\fR into the object referenced by the \fIpshared\fR parameter. Otherwise
an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_rwlockattr_getpshared()\fR and
\fBpthread_rwlockattr_setpshared()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIattr\fR  or \fIpshared\fR is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See  \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_rwlock_init\fR(3C), \fBpthread_rwlock_rdlock\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_rwlock_unlock\fR(3C), \fBpthread_rwlock_wrlock\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
