.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_DETACH 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_detach \- detach a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_detach\fR(\fBpthread_t\fR \fIthread\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_detach()\fR function is used to indicate to the implementation
that storage for the thread \fIthread\fR can be reclaimed when that thread
terminates. In other words,  \fBpthread_detach()\fR dynamically resets the
\fIdetachstate\fR attribute of the thread to \fBPTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED.\fR
After a successful call to this function, it would not be necessary to reclaim
the thread using  \fBpthread_join()\fR. See \fBpthread_join\fR(3C). If
\fIthread\fR has not terminated, \fBpthread_detach()\fR will not cause it to
terminate. The effect of multiple \fBpthread_detach()\fR calls on the same
target thread is unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, \fBpthread_detach()\fR returns  \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error
number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_detach()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The implementation has detected that the value specified by \fIthread\fR does
not refer to a joinable thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
No thread could be found corresponding to that specified by the given thread
\fBID.\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_create\fR(3C), \fBpthread_join\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
