.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_MUTEXATTR_GETPSHARED 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_mutexattr_getpshared, pthread_mutexattr_setpshared \- get or set
process-shared attribute
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_mutexattr_getpshared\fR(
     \fBconst pthread_mutexattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR,
     \fBint *restrict\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_mutexattr_setpshared\fR(\fBpthread_mutexattr_t *\fR\fIattr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_mutexattr_getpshared()\fR function obtains the value of the
\fIprocess-shared\fR attribute from the attributes object referenced by
\fIattr\fR. The \fBpthread_mutexattr_setpshared()\fR function is used to set
the \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute in an initialized attributes object
referenced by \fIattr\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute is set to  \fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED\fR to
permit a mutex to be operated upon by any thread that has access to the memory
where the mutex is allocated, even if the mutex is allocated in memory that is
shared by multiple processes. If the \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute is
\fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE\fR, the mutex will only be operated upon by threads
created within the same process as the thread that initialized the mutex; if
threads of differing processes attempt to operate on such a mutex, the behavior
is undefined. The default value of the attribute is
\fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpthread_mutexattr_getpshared()\fR returns
\fB0\fR and stores the value of the \fIprocess-shared\fR attribute of
\fIattr\fR into the object referenced by the \fIpshared\fR parameter.
Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpthread_mutexattr_setpshared()\fR returns
\fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_mutexattr_getpshared()\fR and
\fBpthread_mutexattr_setpshared()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIattr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_mutexattr_setpshared()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The new value specified for the attribute is outside the range of legal values
for that attribute.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_create\fR(3C), \fBpthread_mutex_init\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_mutexattr_init\fR(3C), \fBpthread_cond_init\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
