.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_CLEANUP_PUSH 3C "Nov 2, 2007"
.SH NAME
pthread_cleanup_push \- push a thread cancellation cleanup handler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBpthread_cleanup_push\fR(\fBvoid (*\fR\fIhandler\fR) (void *), \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_cleanup_push()\fR function pushes the specified cancellation
cleanup handler routine, \fIhandler\fR, onto the cancellation cleanup stack of
the calling thread.
.sp
.LP
When a thread exits or is canceled and its cancellation cleanup  stack is not
empty, the cleanup handlers are invoked with the argument  \fIarg\fR in  last
in, first out (LIFO) order from the cancellation cleanup stack.
.sp
.LP
An exiting or cancelled thread runs with all signals blocked. All thread
termination functions, including cancellation cleanup handlers, are called with
all signals blocked.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_cleanup_push()\fR and \fBpthread_cleanup_pop\fR(3C) functions
can be implemented as macros. The application must ensure that they appear as
statements, and in pairs within the same lexical scope (that is, the
\fBpthread_cleanup_push()\fR macro can be thought to expand to a token list
whose first token is '{' with \fBpthread_cleanup_pop()\fR expanding to a token
list whose last token is the corresponding '}').
.sp
.LP
The effect of the use of \fBreturn\fR, \fBbreak\fR, \fBcontinue\fR, and
\fBgoto\fR to prematurely leave a code block described by a pair of
\fBpthread_cleanup_push()\fR and \fBpthread_cleanup_pop()\fR function calls is
undefined.
.sp
.LP
Using \fBlongjmp()\fR or \fBsiglongjmp()\fR to jump into or out of a push/pop
pair can cause either the matching push or the matching pop statement not
getting executed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_cleanup_push()\fR function returns no value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_cleanup_push()\fR function will not return an error code of
\fBEINTR\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlongjmp\fR(3C), \fBpthread_cancel\fR(3C), \fBpthread_cleanup_pop\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_exit\fR(3C), \fBpthread_join\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_setcancelstate\fR(3C), \fBpthread_setcanceltype\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_testcancel\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBcancellation\fR(5),
\fBcondition\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBcancellation\fR(5) for a discussion of cancellation concepts.
