'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PTHREAD_RWLOCK_INIT 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_rwlock_init, pthread_rwlock_destroy \- initialize or destroy read-write
lock object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_rwlock_init\fR(\fBpthread_rwlock_t *restrict\fR \fIrwlock\fR,
     \fBconst pthread_rwlockattr_t *restrict\fR \fIattr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_rwlock_destroy\fR(\fBpthread_rwlock_t *\fR\fI*rwlock\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpthread_rwlock_t\fR \fIrwlock\fR=\fBPTHREAD_RWLOCK_INITIALIZER\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR function initializes the read-write lock
referenced by \fIrwlock\fR with  the attributes referenced by \fIattr\fR.  If
\fIattr\fR is NULL, the default  read-write lock attributes are used; the
effect is the same as  passing the address of a default read-write lock
attributes object.  Once initialized, the lock can be used any  number of times
without being re-initialized.  Upon successful initialization, the state of the
read-write lock  becomes initialized and unlocked.  Results are undefined if
\fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR is called specifying an already initialized
read-write lock.  Results are undefined if a read-write lock is used without
first being  initialized.
.sp
.LP
If the  \fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR function fails, \fIrwlock\fR is not
initialized and the contents of  \fIrwlock\fR are undefined.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_rwlock_destroy()\fR function destroys the read-write lock object
referenced by \fIrwlock\fR and  releases any resources used by the lock.  The
effect of subsequent use of the lock is undefined until the lock  is
re-initialized by another call to \fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR. An
implementation may cause  \fBpthread_rwlock_destroy()\fR to set the object
referenced by \fIrwlock\fR to an invalid value.  Results are undefined if
\fBpthread_rwlock_destroy()\fR is called when any thread holds \fIrwlock\fR.
Attempting to destroy an uninitialized  read-write lock results in undefined
behaviour.  A destroyed read-write lock object can be re-initialized using
\fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR; the results of otherwise referencing the
read-write lock object after it  has been destroyed are undefined.
.sp
.LP
In cases where default read-write lock attributes are appropriate, the macro
\fBPTHREAD_RWLOCK_INITIALIZER\fR can be used to initialize read-write locks
that are statically allocated.  The effect is equivalent to dynamic
initialization by a call to  \fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR with the parameter
\fIattr\fR specified as NULL, except that no error  checks are performed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the  \fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR and
\fBpthread_rwlock_destroy()\fR functions return  \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an  error
number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_rwlock_init()\fR and  \fBpthread_rwlock_destroy()\fR functions
will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIattr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIrwlock\fR is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_rwlock_rdlock\fR(3C), \fBpthread_rwlock_unlock\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_rwlock_wrlock\fR(3C), \fBpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
