.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_SETCANCELTYPE 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_setcanceltype \- set cancellation type of a thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_setcanceltype\fR(\fBint\fR \fItype\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIoldtype\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_setcanceltype()\fR function atomically sets the calling thread's
cancellation type to the specified \fBtype\fR and, if  \fIoldtype\fR is not
\fINULL,\fR stores the previous cancellation \fBtype\fR in  \fIoldtype\fR. The
\fBtype\fR can be either of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPTHREAD_CANCEL_DEFERRED\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This is the default. When cancellation is enabled (enabled cancellation is also
the default), cancellation occurs when the target thread reaches a cancellation
point and a cancel is pending. When cancellation is disabled, all cancellation
requests to the target thread are held pending.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPTHREAD_CANCEL_ASYNCHRONOUS\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When cancellation is enabled, receipt of a  \fBpthread_cancel\fR(3C) call
causes immediate cancellation. When cancellation is disabled, all cancellation
requests to the target thread are held pending; as soon as cancellation is
re-enabled, pending cancellations are executed immediately.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBcancellation\fR(5) for the definition of a cancellation point and a
discussion of cancellation concepts. See \fBpthread_setcancelstate\fR(3C) for
explanations of enabling and disabling cancellation.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_setcanceltype()\fR function is a cancellation point if
\fBtype\fR is called with \fBPTHREAD_CANCEL_ASYNCHRONOUS\fR and the
cancellation state is \fBPTHREAD_CANCEL_ENABLE.\fR
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the  \fBpthread_setcanceltype()\fR function returns
\fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_setcanceltype()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The specified \fBtype\fR is not \fBPTHREAD_CANCEL_DEFERRED\fR or
\fBPTHREAD_CANCEL_ASYNCHRONOUS.\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_cancel\fR(3C), \fBpthread_cleanup_pop\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_cleanup_push\fR(3C), \fBpthread_exit\fR(3C), \fBpthread_join\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_setcancelstate\fR(3C), \fBpthread_testcancel\fR(3C),
\fBsetjmp\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBcancellation\fR(5),
\fBcondition\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
