.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH PTHREAD_GETSPECIFIC 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_getspecific, pthread_setspecific \- manage thread-specific data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_setspecific\fR(\fBpthread_key_t\fR \fIkey\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBpthread_getspecific\fR(\fBpthread_key_t\fR \fIkey\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR function associates a thread-specific
\fIvalue\fR with a \fIkey\fR obtained by way of a previous call to
\fBpthread_key_create()\fR. Different threads may bind different values to the
same key. These values are typically pointers to blocks of dynamically
allocated memory that have been reserved for use by the calling thread.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_getspecific()\fR function returns the value currently bound to
the specified \fIkey\fR on behalf of the calling thread.
.sp
.LP
The effect of calling \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR or
\fBpthread_getspecific()\fR with a \fIkey\fR value not obtained from
\fBpthread_key_create()\fR or after \fIkey\fR has been deleted with
\fBpthread_key_delete()\fR is undefined.
.sp
.LP
Both \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR and \fBpthread_getspecific()\fR may be called
from a thread-specific data destructor function. However, calling
\fBpthread_setspecific()\fR from a destructor may result in lost storage or
infinite loops.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_getspecific()\fR function returns the thread-specific data
value associated with the given \fIkey\fR. If no thread-specific data value is
associated with \fIkey\fR, then the value \fINULL\fR is returned.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR function returns
\fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Insufficient memory exists to associate the value with the key.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_setspecific()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The key value is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_getspecific()\fR function does not  return errors.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_key_create\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
