'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1991, 1992, 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PTHREAD_CONDATTR_INIT 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
pthread_condattr_init, pthread_condattr_destroy \- initialize or destroy
condition variable attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lpthread [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <pthread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBpthread_condattr_init\fR(\fBpthread_condattr_t *\fR\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpthread_condattr_destroy\fR(\fBpthread_condattr_t *\fR\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_condattr_init()\fR function initializes a condition variable
attributes object \fIattr\fR with the default value for all of the attributes
defined by the implementation.
.sp
.LP
At present, the only attribute available is the scope of condition variables.
The default scope of the attribute is  \fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE\fR.
.sp
.LP
Attempts to initialize previously initialized condition variable attributes
object will leave the storage allocated by the previous initialization
unallocated.
.sp
.LP
After a condition variable attributes object has been used to initialize one or
more condition variables, any function affecting the attributes object
(including destruction) does not affect any previously initialized condition
variables.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_condattr_destroy()\fR function destroys a condition variable
attributes object; the object becomes, in effect, uninitialized. An
implementation may cause \fBpthread_condattr_destroy()\fR to set the object
referenced by \fIattr\fR to an invalid value. A destroyed condition variable
attributes object can be re-initialized using \fBpthread_condattr_init()\fR;
the results of otherwise referencing the object after it has been destroyed are
undefined.
.sp
.LP
Additional attributes, their default values, and the names of the associated
functions to get and set those attribute values are implementation-dependent.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the \fBpthread_condattr_init()\fR and
\fBpthread_condattr_destroy()\fR functions return  \fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error
number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBpthread_condattr_init()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the condition variable attributes
object.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpthread_condattr_destroy()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value specified by \fIattr\fR is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_condattr_getpshared\fR(3C), \fBpthread_condattr_setpshared\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_cond_init\fR(3C), \fBpthread_create\fR(3C),
\fBpthread_mutex_init\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
