.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd "Mar 26, 2016"
.Dt QUICK_EXIT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm at_quick_exit ,
.Nm quick_exit
.Nd terminate a running process with minimal teardown
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdlib.h
.Ft int
.Fo at_quick_exit
.Fa "void (*func)(void)"
.Fc
.Ft _Noreturn void
.Fo quick_exit
.Fa "int status"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn quick_exit
and
.Fn at_quick_exit
functions provide a veneer around
.Xr _Exit 3C
that allows for registered functions to be called before terminating.
Like
.Xr _Exit 3C ,
standard library termination is not done.
.Xr atexit 3C
functions are not called and various standard termination that occurs
when calling
.Xr exit 3C
may not occur.
.Pp
Functions that are registered with
.Fn at_quick_exit
will be called in reverse order upon calling
.Fn quick_exit .
Functions registered with
.Fn at_quick_exit
will not be called at any other time.
Functions that are registered with
.Fn at_quick_exit
should not make use of
.Xr longjump 3C
and related functions.
.Pp
After calling all registered functions, the
.Fn quick_exit
function will terminate the calling program and its exit status will be
.Fa status .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn quick_exit
function does not return.
.Pp
The
.Fn at_quick_exit
function returns
.Sy 0
on success.
Otherwise, a non-zero error value is returned to indicate failure.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn at_quick_exit
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOMEM
Insufficient storage space is available.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr _Exit 3C ,
.Xr atexit 3C ,
.Xr exit 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5
