'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T. Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RAISE 3C "Mar 23, 2005"
.SH NAME
raise \- send a signal to the executing thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>

\fBint\fR \fBraise\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBraise()\fR function sends the signal \fIsig\fR to the executing thread.
If a signal handler is called, the raise function does not return until after
the signal handler returns.
.sp
.LP
The effect of the raise function is equivalent to calling:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
pthread_kill(pthread_self(), sig);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
See the \fBpthread_kill\fR(3C) manual page for a detailed list of failure
conditions and the \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) manual page for a list of signals.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpthread_kill\fR(3C), \fBpthread_self\fR(3C), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
