.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH RE_COMP 3C "Feb 26, 1997"
.SH NAME
re_comp, re_exec \- compile and execute regular expressions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <re_comp.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBre_comp\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBre_exec\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBre_comp()\fR function converts a regular expression string (RE) into an
internal form suitable for pattern matching.  The \fBre_exec()\fR function
compares the string pointed to by the \fIstring\fR argument with the last
regular expression passed to \fBre_comp()\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fBre_comp()\fR is called with a null pointer argument, the current regular
expression remains unchanged.
.sp
.LP
Strings passed to both \fBre_comp()\fR and \fBre_exec()\fR must be terminated
by a null byte, and may include \fBNEWLINE\fR characters.
.sp
.LP
The \fBre_comp()\fR and \fBre_exec()\fR functions support \fIsimple regular
expressions\fR, which are defined on the \fBregexp\fR(5) manual page. The
regular expressions of the form \fB\e{\fRm\fB\e}\fR, \fB\e{\fRm,\fB\e}\fR, or
\fB\e{\fRm,n\fB\e}\fR are not supported.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBre_comp()\fR function returns a null pointer when the string pointed to
by the \fIstring\fR argument is successfully converted.  Otherwise, a pointer
to one of the following error message strings is returned:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
No previous regular expression
Regular expression too long
unmatched \e\|(
missing ]
too many \e\|(\|\e\|) pairs
unmatched \e\|)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBre_exec()\fR returns \fB1\fR if \fIstring\fR
matches the last compiled regular expression.  Otherwise, \fBre_exec()\fR
returns \fB0\fR if \fIstring\fR fails to match the last compiled regular
expression, and \fB\(mi1\fR if the compiled regular expression is invalid
(indicating an internal error).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
For portability to implementations conforming to X/Open standards prior to SUS,
\fBregcomp\fR(3C) and \fBregexec\fR(3C) are preferred to these functions.  See
\fBstandards\fR(5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgrep\fR(1), \fBregcmp\fR(1), \fBregcmp\fR(3C), \fBregcomp\fR(3C),
\fBregexec\fR(3C), \fBregexpr\fR(3GEN), \fBregexp\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
