'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH REMOVE 3C "Aug 14, 2002"
.SH NAME
remove \- remove file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBremove\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBremove()\fR function causes the file or empty directory whose name is
the string pointed to by \fIpath\fR to be no longer accessible by that name. A
subsequent attempt to open that file using that name will fail, unless the file
is created anew.
.sp
.LP
For files, \fBremove()\fR is identical to  \fBunlink()\fR. For directories,
\fBremove()\fR is identical to \fBrmdir()\fR.
.sp
.LP
See \fBrmdir\fR(2) and \fBunlink\fR(2) for a detailed list of failure
conditions.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBremove()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate an error.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrmdir\fR(2), \fBunlink\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
