'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCANF 3C "Jul 10, 2008"
.SH NAME
scanf, fscanf, sscanf, vscanf, vfscanf, vsscanf \- convert formatted input
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBscanf\fR(\fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIformat\fR...);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBfscanf\fR(\fBFILE *restrict\fR \fIstream\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIformat\fR...);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsscanf\fR(\fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIs\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIformat\fR...);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <stdarg.h>
#include <stdio.h>

\fBint\fR \fBvscanf\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIformat\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIarg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBvfscanf\fR(\fBFILE *\fR\fIstream\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIformat\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIarg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBvsscanf\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIformat\fR, \fBva_list\fR \fIarg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscanf()\fR function reads from the standard input stream \fBstdin\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfscanf()\fR function reads from the named input \fIstream\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsscanf()\fR function reads from the string \fIs\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBvscanf()\fR, \fBvfscanf()\fR, and \fBvsscanf()\fR functions are
equivalent to the \fBscanf()\fR, \fBfscanf()\fR, and \fBsscanf()\fR functions,
respectively, except that instead of being called with a variable number of
arguments, they are called with an argument list as defined by the
<\fBstdarg.h\fR> header . These functions do not invoke the \fBva_end()\fR
macro. Applications using these functions should call \fBva_end\fR(\fIap\fR)
afterwards to clean up.
.sp
.LP
Each function reads bytes, interprets them according to a format, and stores
the results in its arguments. Each expects, as arguments, a control string
\fIformat\fR described below, and a set of \fIpointer\fR arguments indicating
where the converted input should be stored. The result is undefined if there
are insufficient arguments for the format. If the format is exhausted while
arguments remain, the excess arguments are evaluated but are otherwise ignored.
.sp
.LP
Conversions can be applied to the \fInth\fR argument after the \fIformat\fR in
the argument list, rather than to the next unused argument. In this case, the
conversion character \fB%\fR (see below) is replaced by the sequence
\fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR, where \fIn\fR is a decimal integer in the range [1,
\fBNL_ARGMAX\fR]. This feature provides for the definition of format strings
that select arguments in an order appropriate to specific languages. In format
strings containing the \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR form of conversion specifications,
it is unspecified whether numbered arguments in the argument list can be
referenced from the format string more than once.
.sp
.LP
The \fIformat\fR can contain either form of a conversion specification, that
is, \fB%\fR or \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR, but the two forms cannot normally be
mixed within a single \fIformat\fR string. The only exception to this is that
\fB%%\fR or \fB%*\fR can be mixed with the \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR form.
.sp
.LP
The \fBscanf()\fR function in all its forms allows for detection of a
language-dependent radix character in the input string.  The radix character is
defined in the program's locale (category \fBLC_NUMERIC\fR). In the POSIX
locale, or in a locale where the radix character is not defined, the radix
character defaults to a period (.).
.sp
.LP
The format is a character string, beginning and ending in its initial shift
state, if any, composed of zero or more directives. Each directive is composed
of one of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
one or more \fIwhite-space characters\fR (space, tab, newline, vertical-tab or
form-feed characters);
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
an \fIordinary character\fR (neither \fB%\fR nor a white-space character); or
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
a \fIconversion specification\fR.
.RE
.SS "Conversion Specifications"
.sp
.LP
Each conversion specification is introduced by the character \fB%\fR or the
character sequence \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR, after which the following appear in
sequence:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional assignment-suppressing character \fB*\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An optional non-zero decimal integer that specifies the maximum field width.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
An option length modifier that specifies the size of the receiving object.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A conversion specifier character that specifies the type of conversion to be
applied. The valid conversion characters are described below.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The \fBscanf()\fR functions execute each directive of the format in turn.  If a
directive fails, as detailed below, the function returns.  Failures are
described as input failures (due to the unavailability of input bytes) or
matching failures (due to inappropriate input).
.sp
.LP
A directive composed of one or more white-space characters is executed by
reading input until no more valid input can be read, or up to the first byte
which is not a white-space character which remains unread.
.sp
.LP
A directive that is an ordinary character is executed as follows. The next byte
is read from the input and compared with the byte that comprises the directive;
if the comparison shows that they are not equivalent, the directive fails, and
the differing and subsequent bytes remain unread.
.sp
.LP
A directive that is a conversion specification defines a set of matching input
sequences, as described below for each conversion character. A conversion
specification is executed in the following steps:
.sp
.LP
Input white-space characters (as specified by \fBisspace\fR(3C)) are skipped,
unless the conversion specification includes a \fB[\fR, \fBc\fR, \fBC\fR, or
\fBn\fR conversion character.
.sp
.LP
An item is read from the input unless the conversion specification includes an
\fBn\fR conversion character. The length of the item read is limited to any
specified maximum field width, which is interpreted in either characters or
bytes depending on the conversion character. In Solaris default mode, the input
item is defined as the longest sequence of input bytes that forms a matching
sequence. In some cases, \fBscanf()\fR might need to read several extra
characters beyond the end of the input item to find the end of a matching
sequence. In C99/SUSv3 mode, the input item is defined as the longest sequence
of input bytes that is, or is a prefix of, a matching sequence. With this
definition, \fBscanf()\fR need only read at most one character beyond the end
of the input item. Therefore, in C99/SUSv3 mode, some sequences that are
acceptable to \fBstrtod\fR(3C), \fBstrtol\fR(3C), and similar functions are
unacceptable to \fBscanf()\fR. In either mode, \fBscanf()\fR attempts to push
back any excess bytes read using \fBungetc\fR(3C). Assuming all such attempts
succeed, the first byte, if any, after the input item remains unread. If the
length of the input item is 0, the conversion fails. This condition is a
matching failure unless end-of-file, an encoding error, or a read error
prevented input from the stream, in which case it is an input failure.
.sp
.LP
Except in the case of a \fB%\fR conversion character, the input item (or, in
the case of a \fB%\fR\fIn\fR conversion specification, the count of input
bytes) is converted to a type appropriate to the conversion character. If the
input item is not a matching sequence, the execution of the conversion
specification fails; this condition is a matching failure. Unless assignment
suppression was indicated by a \fB*\fR, the result of the conversion is placed
in the object pointed to by the first argument following the \fIformat\fR
argument that has not already received a conversion result if the conversion
specification is introduced by \fB%\fR, or in the \fIn\fRth argument if
introduced by the character sequence \fB%\fR\fIn\fR\fB$\fR. If this object does
not have an appropriate type, or if the result of the conversion cannot be
represented in the space provided, the behavior is undefined.
.SS "Length Modifiers"
.sp
.LP
The length modifiers and their meanings are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBhh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBsigned char\fR or \fBunsigned char\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBshort\fR or \fBunsigned short\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBl\fR (ell)\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBlong\fR or \fBunsigned long\fR; that a following \fBa\fR,
\fBA\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR, \fBF\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBG\fR conversion
specifier applies to an argument with type pointer to \fBdouble\fR; or that a
following \fBc\fR, \fBs\fR, or \fB[\fR conversion specifier applies to an
argument with type pointer to \fBwchar_t\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBll\fR (ell-ell)\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBlong long\fR or \fBunsigned long long\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBj\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBintmax_t\fR or \fBuintmax_t\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBz\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBsize_t\fR or the corresponding signed integer type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBd\fR, \fBi\fR, \fBo\fR, \fBu\fR, \fBx\fR,
\fBX\fR, or \fBn\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with type
pointer to \fBptrdiff_t\fR or the corresponding \fBunsigned\fR type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Specifies that a following \fBa\fR, \fBA\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBf\fR,
\fBF\fR, \fBg\fR, or \fBG\fR conversion specifier applies to an argument with
type pointer to \fBlong double\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a length modifier appears with any conversion specifier other than as
specified above, the behavior is undefined.
.SS "Conversion Characters"
.sp
.LP
The following conversion characters are valid:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches an optionally signed decimal integer, whose format is the same as
expected for the subject sequence of \fBstrtol\fR(3C) with the value 10 for the
\fIbase\fR argument. In the absence of a size modifier, the corresponding
argument must be a pointer to \fBint\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBi\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches an optionally signed integer, whose format is the same as expected for
the subject sequence of \fBstrtol()\fR with 0 for the \fIbase\fR argument. In
the absence of a size modifier, the corresponding argument must be a pointer to
\fBint\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBo\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches an optionally signed octal integer, whose format is the same as
expected for the subject sequence of \fBstrtoul\fR(3C) with the value 8 for the
\fIbase\fR argument. In the absence of a size modifier, the corresponding
argument must be a pointer to \fBunsigned int\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches an optionally signed decimal integer, whose format is the same as
expected for the subject sequence of \fBstrtoul()\fR with the value 10 for the
\fIbase\fR argument. In the absence of a size modifier, the corresponding
argument must be a pointer to \fBunsigned int\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches an optionally signed hexadecimal integer, whose format is the same as
expected for the subject sequence of \fBstrtoul()\fR with the value 16 for the
\fIbase\fR argument. In the absence of a size modifier, the corresponding
argument must be a pointer to \fBunsigned int\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBa\fR,\fBe\fR,\fBf\fR,\fBg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches an optionally signed floating-point number, infinity, or NaN, whose
format is the same as expected for the subject sequence of \fBstrtod\fR(3C). In
the absence of a size modifier, the corresponding argument must be a pointer to
\fBfloat\fR. The \fBe\fR, \fBf\fR, and \fBg\fR specifiers match hexadecimal
floating point values only in C99/SUSv3 (see \fBstandards\fR(5)) mode, but the
\fBa\fR specifier always matches hexadecimal floating point values.
.sp
These conversion specifiers match any subject sequence accepted by
\fBstrtod\fR(3C), including the INF, INFINITY, NAN, and
NAN(\fIn-char-sequence\fR) forms.  The result of the conversion is the same as
that of calling \fBstrtod()\fR (or \fBstrtof()\fR or \fBstrtold()\fR) with the
matching sequence, including the raising of floating point exceptions and the
setting of \fBerrno\fR to \fBERANGE\fR, if applicable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches a sequence of bytes that are not white-space characters. The
corresponding argument must be a pointer to the initial byte of an array of
\fBchar\fR, \fBsigned char\fR, or \fBunsigned char\fR large enough to accept
the sequence and a terminating null character code, which will be added
automatically.
.sp
If an \fBl\fR (ell) qualifier is present, the input is a sequence of characters
that begins in the initial shift state.  Each character is converted to a
wide-character as if by a call to the \fBmbrtowc\fR(3C) function, with the
conversion state described by an \fBmbstate_t\fR object initialized to zero
before the first character is converted.  The corresponding argument must be a
pointer to an array of \fBwchar_t\fR large enough to accept the sequence and
the terminating null  wide-character, which will be added automatically.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB[\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches a non-empty sequence of characters from a set of expected characters
(the \fIscanset\fR). The normal skip over white-space characters is suppressed
in this case. The corresponding argument must be a pointer to the initial byte
of an array of \fBchar\fR, \fBsigned char\fR, or \fBunsigned char\fR large
enough to accept the sequence and a terminating null byte, which will be added
automatically.
.sp
If an \fBl\fR (ell) qualifier is present, the input is a sequence of characters
that begins in the initial shift state.  Each character in the sequence is
converted to a wide-character as if by a call to the \fBmbrtowc()\fR function,
with the conversion state described by an \fBmbstate_t\fR object initialized to
zero before the first character is converted.  The corresponding argument must
be a pointer to an array of \fBwchar_t\fR large enough to accept the sequence
and the terminating null wide-character, which will be added automatically.
.sp
The conversion specification includes all subsequent characters in the
\fIformat\fR string up to and including the matching right square bracket
(\fB]\fR). The characters between the square brackets (the \fIscanlist\fR)
comprise the scanset, unless the character after the left square bracket is a
circumflex (\fB^\fR), in which case the scanset contains all characters that do
not appear in the scanlist between the circumflex and the right square bracket.
If the conversion specification begins with \fB[\|]\fR or \fB[^]\fR, the right
square bracket is included in the scanlist and the next right square bracket is
the matching right square bracket that ends the conversion specification;
otherwise the first right square bracket is the one that ends the conversion
specification. If a \fB-\fR is in the scanlist and is not the first character,
nor the second where the first character is a \fB^\fR, nor the last character,
it indicates a range of characters to be matched.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches a sequence of characters of the number specified by the field width (1
if no field width is present in the conversion specification). The
corresponding argument must be a pointer to the initial byte of an array of
\fBchar\fR, \fBsigned char\fR, or \fBunsigned char\fR large enough to accept
the sequence. No null byte is added. The normal skip over white-space
characters is suppressed in this case.
.sp
If an \fBl\fR (ell) qualifier is present, the input is a sequence of characters
that begins in the initial shift state.  Each character in the sequence is
converted to a wide-character as if by a call to the \fBmbrtowc()\fR function,
with the conversion state described by an \fBmbstate_t\fR object initialized to
zero before the first character is converted.  The corresponding argument must
be a pointer to an array of \fBwchar_t\fR large enough to accept the resulting
sequence of wide-characters.  No null wide-character is added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches the set of sequences that is the same as the set of sequences that is
produced by the \fB%p\fR conversion of the corresponding \fBprintf\fR(3C)
functions. The corresponding argument must be a pointer to a pointer to
\fBvoid\fR. If the input item is a value converted earlier during the same
program execution, the pointer that results will compare equal to that value;
otherwise the behavior of the \fB%p\fR conversion is undefined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
No input is consumed. The corresponding argument must be a pointer to the
integer into which is to be written the number of bytes read from the input so
far by this call to the \fBscanf()\fR functions. Execution of a \fB%n\fR
conversion specification does not increment the assignment count returned at
the completion of execution of the function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Same as \fBlc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Same as \fBls\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Matches a single \fB%\fR; no conversion or assignment occurs. The complete
conversion specification must be \fB%%\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If a conversion specification is invalid, the behavior is undefined.
.sp
.LP
The conversion characters \fBA\fR, \fBE\fR, \fBF\fR, \fBG\fR, and \fBX\fR are
also valid and behave the same as, respectively, \fBa\fR, \fBe\fR, \fBf\fR,
\fBg\fR, and \fBx\fR.
.sp
.LP
If end-of-file is encountered during input, conversion is terminated. If
end-of-file occurs before any bytes matching the current conversion
specification (except for \fB%n\fR) have been read (other than leading
white-space characters, where permitted), execution of the current conversion
specification terminates with an input failure.  Otherwise, unless execution of
the current conversion specification is terminated with a matching failure,
execution of the following conversion specification (if any) is terminated with
an input failure.
.sp
.LP
Reaching the end of the string in \fBsscanf()\fR is equivalent to encountering
end-of-file for \fBfscanf()\fR.
.sp
.LP
If conversion terminates on a conflicting input, the offending input is left
unread in the input. Any trailing white space (including newline characters) is
left unread unless matched by a conversion specification. The success of
literal matches and suppressed assignments is only directly determinable via
the \fB%n\fR conversion specification.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfscanf()\fR and \fBscanf()\fR functions may mark the \fBst_atime\fR
field of the file associated with \fIstream\fR for update. The \fBst_atime\fR
field will be marked for update by the first successful execution of
\fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBfgets\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C), \fBfscanf(\|),\fR
\fBgetc\fR(3C), \fBgetchar\fR(3C), \fBgets\fR(3C), or \fBscanf()\fR using
\fIstream\fR that returns data not supplied by a prior call to
\fBungetc\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the number of successfully
matched and assigned input items; this number can be 0 in the event of an early
matching failure.  If the input ends before the first matching failure or
conversion, \fBEOF\fR is returned.  If a read error occurs the error indicator
for the stream is set, \fBEOF\fR is returned, and \fBerrno\fR is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
For the conditions under which the \fBscanf()\fR functions will fail and may
fail, refer to \fBfgetc\fR(3C) or \fBfgetwc\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
In addition, \fBfscanf()\fR may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Input byte sequence does not form a valid character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There are insufficient arguments.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the application calling the \fBscanf()\fR functions has any objects of type
\fBwint_t\fR or \fBwchar_t,\fR it must also include the header \fB<wchar.h>\fR
to have these objects defined.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRThe call:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int i, n; float x; char name[50];
n = scanf("%d%f%s", &i, &x, name)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
with the input line:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
25 54.32E-1 Hamster
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
will assign to \fIn\fR the value 3, to \fIi\fR the value 25, to \fIx\fR the
value 5.432, and \fIname\fR will contain the string Hamster.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRThe call:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int i; float x; char name[50];
(void) scanf("%2d%f%*d %[0123456789]", &i, &x, name);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
with input:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
56789 0123 56a72
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
will assign 56 to \fIi\fR, 789.0 to \fIx\fR, skip 0123, and place the string
56\e0 in \fIname\fR. The next call to \fBgetchar\fR(3C) will return the
character \fBa\fR.

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfgetc\fR(3C), \fBfgets\fR(3C), \fBfgetwc\fR(3C), \fBfread\fR(3C),
\fBisspace\fR(3C), \fBprintf\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBstrtod\fR(3C),
\fBstrtol\fR(3C), \fBstrtoul\fR(3C), \fBwcrtomb\fR(3C), \fBungetc\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The behavior of the conversion specifier "%%" has changed for all of the
functions described on this manual page. Previously the "%%" specifier accepted
a "%" character from input only if there were no preceding whitespace
characters.  The new behavior accepts "%" even if there are preceding
whitespace characters. This new behavior now aligns with the description on
this manual page and in various standards. If the old behavior is desired, the
conversion specification "%*[%]" can be used.
