'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCHED_SETSCHEDULER 3C "Apr 1, 2008"
.SH NAME
sched_setscheduler \- set scheduling policy and scheduling parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sched.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsched_setscheduler\fR(\fBpid_t\fR \fIpid\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpolicy\fR,
     \fBconst struct sched_param *\fR\fIparam\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsched_setscheduler()\fR function sets the scheduling policy and
scheduling parameters of the process specified by \fIpid\fR to \fIpolicy\fR and
the parameters specified in the \fBsched_param\fR structure pointed to by
\fIparam\fR, respectively. The value of the \fBsched_priority\fR member in the
\fBsched_param\fR structure is any integer within the inclusive priority range
for the scheduling policy specified by \fIpolicy\fR. The
\fBsched_setscheduler()\fR function ignores the other members of the
\fBsched_param\fR structure. If the value of \fIpid\fR is negative, the
behavior of the \fBsched_setscheduler()\fR function is unspecified.
.sp
.LP
The possible values for the \fIpolicy\fR parameter are defined in the header
<\fBsched.h\fR> (see \fBsched.h\fR(3HEAD)):
.sp
.LP
If a process specified by \fIpid\fR exists and if the calling process has
permission, the scheduling policy and scheduling parameters are set for the
process whose process  \fBID\fR is equal to \fIpid.\fR The real or effective
user  \fBID\fR of the calling process must match the real or saved (from
\fBexec\fR(2)) user  \fBID\fR of the target process unless the effective user
\fBID\fR of the calling process is 0. See \fBIntro\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
If \fIpid\fR is 0, the scheduling policy and scheduling parameters are set for
the calling process.
.sp
.LP
To change the \fIpolicy\fR of any process to either of the real time policies
\fBSCHED_FIFO\fR or \fBSCHED_RR\fR, the calling process must either have the
\fBSCHED_FIFO\fR or \fBSCHED_RR\fR policy or have an effective user \fBID\fR of
\fB0\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsched_setscheduler()\fR function is considered successful if it succeeds
in setting the scheduling policy and scheduling parameters of the process
specified by \fIpid\fR to the values specified by \fIpolicy\fR and the
structure pointed to by \fIparam\fR, respectively.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the function returns the former scheduling policy
of the specified process. If the \fBsched_setscheduler()\fR function fails to
complete successfully, the policy and scheduling paramenters remain unchanged,
and the function returns \(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsched_setscheduler()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIpolicy\fR is invalid, or one or more of the parameters
contained in \fIparam\fR is outside the valid range for the specified
scheduling policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The requesting process does not have permission to set either or both of the
scheduling parameters or the scheduling policy of the specified process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by \fIpid.\fR
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpriocntl\fR(1), \fBIntro\fR(2), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBpriocntl\fR(2),
\fBlibrt\fR(3LIB), \fBsched.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBsched_get_priority_max\fR(3C),
\fBsched_getparam\fR(3C), \fBsched_getscheduler\fR(3C),
\fBsched_setparam\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
