'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCHED_GETPARAM 3C "Apr 1, 2008"
.SH NAME
sched_getparam \- get scheduling parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sched.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsched_getparam\fR(\fBpid_t\fR \fIpid\fR, \fBstruct sched_param *\fR\fIparam\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsched_getparam()\fR function returns the scheduling parameters of a
process specified by \fIpid\fR in the \fBsched_param\fR structure pointed to by
\fIparam\fR. The only required member of \fIparam\fR is \fIsched_priority\fR.
.sp
.LP
If a process specified by \fIpid\fR exists and if the calling process has
permission, the scheduling parameters for the process whose process ID is equal
to \fIpid\fR will be returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIpid\fR is 0, the scheduling parameters for the calling process will be
returned. The behavior of the \fBsched_getparam()\fR function is unspecified if
the value of \fIpid\fR is negative.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the \fBsched_getparam()\fR function returns
\fB0\fR. If the call to \fBsched_getparam()\fR is unsuccessful, the function
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBsched_getparam()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The requesting process does not have permission to obtain the scheduling
parameters of the specified process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by \fIpid\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibrt\fR(3LIB), \fBsched.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBsched_getscheduler\fR(3C),
\fBsched_setparam\fR(3C), \fBsched_setscheduler\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
