.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH SEM_INIT 3C "Jul 9, 2009"
.SH NAME
sem_init \- initialize an unnamed semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_init\fR(\fBsem_t *\fR\fIsem\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpshared\fR, \fBunsigned int\fR \fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_init()\fR function is used to initialize the unnamed semaphore
referred to by \fIsem\fR. The value of the initialized semaphore is
\fIvalue\fR. Following a successful call to \fBsem_init()\fR, the semaphore may
be used in subsequent calls to \fBsem_wait\fR(3C), \fBsem_trywait\fR(3C),
\fBsem_post\fR(3C), and \fBsem_destroy\fR(3C). This semaphore remains usable
until the semaphore is destroyed.
.sp
.LP
If the \fIpshared\fR argument has a non-zero value, then the semaphore is
shared between processes; in this case, any process that can access the
semaphore \fIsem\fR can use \fIsem\fR for performing \fBsem_wait\fR(3C),
\fBsem_trywait\fR(3C), \fBsem_post\fR(3C), and \fBsem_destroy\fR(3C)
operations.
.sp
.LP
Only \fIsem\fR itself may be used for performing synchronization. The result of
referring to copies of \fIsem\fR in calls to \fBsem_wait\fR(3C),
\fBsem_trywait\fR(3C), \fBsem_post\fR(3C), and \fBsem_destroy\fR(3C), is
undefined.
.sp
.LP
If the \fIpshared\fR argument is zero, then the semaphore is shared between
threads of the process; any thread in this process can use \fIsem\fR for
performing \fBsem_wait\fR(3C), \fBsem_trywait\fR(3C), \fBsem_post\fR(3C), and
\fBsem_destroy\fR(3C) operations. The use of the semaphore by threads other
than those created in the same process is undefined.
.sp
.LP
Attempting to initialize an already initialized semaphore results in undefined
behavior.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_open\fR(3C) function is used with named semaphores.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, the function initializes the semaphore in
\fIsem\fR. Otherwise, it returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate
the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_init()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIvalue\fR argument exceeds  \fBSEM_VALUE_MAX\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A resource required to initialize the semaphore has been exhausted, or the
resources have reached the limit on semaphores (\fBSEM_NSEMS_MAX\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSYS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fBsem_init()\fR function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The process lacks the appropriate privileges to initialize the semaphore.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsem_destroy\fR(3C), \fBsem_open\fR(3C), \fBsem_post\fR(3C),
\fBsem_wait\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
