.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH SEM_GETVALUE 3C "Feb 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
sem_getvalue \- get the value of a semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_getvalue\fR(\fBsem_t *restrict\fR \fIsem\fR, \fBint *restrict\fR \fIsval\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_getvalue()\fR function updates the location referenced by the
\fIsval\fR argument to have the value of the semaphore referenced by \fIsem\fR
without affecting the state of the semaphore. The updated value represents an
actual semaphore value that occurred at some unspecified time during the call,
but it need not be the actual value of the semaphore when it is returned to the
calling process.
.sp
.LP
If \fIsem\fR is locked, then the value returned by \fBsem_getvalue()\fR is
either zero or a negative number whose absolute value represents the number of
processes waiting for the semaphore at some unspecified time during the call.
.sp
.LP
The value set in \fIsval\fR may be 0 or positive. If \fIsval\fR is 0, there may
be other processes (or LWPs or threads) waiting for the semaphore; if
\fIsval\fR is positive, no process is waiting.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBsem_getvalue()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBsem_getvalue()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIsem\fR argument does not refer to a valid semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSYS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fBsem_getvalue()\fR function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsemctl\fR(2), \fBsemget\fR(2), \fBsemop\fR(2), \fBsem_post\fR(3C),
\fBsem_wait\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
