.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH SEM_CLOSE 3C "Feb 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
sem_close \- close a named semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsem_close\fR(\fBsem_t *\fR\fIsem\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_close()\fR function is used to indicate that the calling process is
finished using the named semaphore indicated by \fIsem\fR. The effects of
calling \fBsem_close()\fR for an unnamed semaphore (one created by
\fBsem_init\fR(3C)) are undefined. The \fBsem_close()\fR function deallocates
(that is, make available for reuse by a subsequent \fBsem_open\fR(3C) by this
process) any system resources allocated by the system for use by this process
for this semaphore. The effect of subsequent use of the semaphore indicated by
\fIsem\fR by this process is undefined. If the semaphore has not been removed
with a successful call to \fBsem_unlink\fR(3C), then \fBsem_close()\fR has no
effect on the state of the semaphore. If the \fBsem_unlink\fR(3C) function has
been successfully invoked for \fIname\fR after the most recent call to
\fBsem_open\fR(3C) with \fBO_CREAT\fR for this semaphore, then when all
processes that have opened the semaphore close it, the semaphore is no longer
be accessible.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, \fBsem_close()\fR returns \fB0\fR, otherwise it returns
\fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_close()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIsem\fR argument is not a valid semaphore descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSYS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fBsem_close()\fR function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBsem_close()\fR function should not be called for an unnamed semaphore
initialized by \fBsem_init\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsem_init\fR(3C), \fBsem_open\fR(3C), \fBsem_unlink\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and Output
option. Prior to this release, this function always returned \fB\(mi1\fR and
set \fBerrno\fR to \fBENOSYS\fR.
