.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH SEMAPHORE 3C "Feb 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
semaphore, sema_init, sema_destroy, sema_wait, sema_trywait, sema_post \-
semaphores
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lthread  -lc [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <synch.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsema_init\fR(\fBsema_t *\fR\fIsp\fR, \fBunsigned int\fR \fIcount\fR, \fBint\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fR \fIarg\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsema_destroy\fR(\fBsema_t *\fR\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsema_wait\fR(\fBsema_t *\fR\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsema_trywait\fR(\fBsema_t *\fR\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsema_post\fR(\fBsema_t *\fR\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A semaphore is a non-negative integer count and is generally used to coordinate
access to resources. The initial semaphore count is set to the number of free
resources, then threads slowly increment and decrement the count as resources
are added and removed. If the semaphore count drops to 0, which means no
available resources,  threads attempting to decrement the semaphore will block
until the count is greater than 0.
.sp
.LP
Semaphores can synchronize threads in this process and other processes if they
are allocated in writable memory  and shared among the cooperating processes
(see \fBmmap\fR(2)), and have been initialized for this purpose.
.sp
.LP
Semaphores must be initialized before use; semaphores pointed to by \fIsp\fR to
\fIcount\fR are initialized by \fBsema_init()\fR. The \fItype\fR argument can
assign several different types of behavior to a semaphore. No current type uses
\fIarg\fR, although it may be used in the future.
.sp
.LP
The \fItype\fR argument may be one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The semaphore can synchronize threads in this process and other processes.
Initializing the semaphore should be done by only one process. A semaphore
initialized with this type must be allocated in memory shared between
processes, either in Sys V shared memory (see \fBshmop\fR(2)), or in memory
mapped to a file (see \fBmmap\fR(2)). It is illegal to initialize the object
this way and not allocate it in such shared memory. \fIarg\fR is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The semaphore can synchronize  threads only in this process. The \fIarg\fR
argument is ignored. \fBUSYNC_THREAD\fR does not support multiple mappings to
the same logical synch object. If you need to \fBmmap()\fR a synch object to
different locations within the same address space, then the synch object should
be initialized as a shared object \fBUSYNC_PROCESS\fR for Solaris threads and
\fBPTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE\fR for POSIX threads.
.RE

.sp
.LP
A semaphore must not be simultaneously initialized by multiple threads, nor
re-initialized while in use by other threads.
.sp
.LP
Default semaphore initialization (intra-process):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sema_t sp;
int count  =  1;
sema_init(&sp, count, 0, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
or
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sema_init(&sp, count, USYNC_THREAD, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Customized semaphore initialization (inter-process):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBsema_t sp;
int count  =  1;
sema_init(&sp, count, USYNC_PROCESS, NULL);\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_destroy()\fR function destroys any state related to the semaphore
pointed to by \fIsp\fR. The semaphore storage space is not released.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_wait()\fR function blocks the calling thread until the semaphore
count pointed to by \fIsp\fR is greater than 0, and then it atomically
decrements the count.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_trywait()\fR function atomically decrements the semaphore count
pointed to by \fIsp\fR, if the count is greater than 0; otherwise, it returns
an error.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_post()\fR function atomically increments the semaphore count
pointed to by \fIsp\fR. If there are any threads blocked on the semaphore, one
will be unblocked.
.sp
.LP
The semaphore functionality described on this man page is for the Solaris
threads implementation.  For the POSIX-conforming semaphore interface
documentation, see \fBsem_close\fR(3C), \fBsem_destroy\fR(3C),
\fBsem_getvalue\fR(3C), \fBsem_init\fR(3C), \fBsem_open\fR(3C),
\fBsem_post\fR(3C), \fBsem_unlink\fR(3C), and \fBsem_wait\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion,  \fB0\fR is returned; otherwise, a non-zero value
indicates an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fIsp\fR argument does not refer to a valid semaphore.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Either the \fIsp\fR or \fIarg\fR argument points to an illegal address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_wait()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The wait was interrupted by a signal or \fBfork()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_trywait()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The semaphore pointed to by \fIsp\fR has a 0 count.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBsema_post()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOVERFLOW\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The semaphore value pointed to by \fIsp\fR exceeds \fBSEM_VALUE_MAX\fR.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRThe customer waiting-line in a bank is analogous to the
synchronization scheme of a semaphore using \fBsema_wait()\fR and
\fBsema_trywait()\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
/* cc [ flag \|.\|.\|. ] file \|.\|.\|. -lthread [ library \|.\|.\|. ] */
#include <errno.h>
#define TELLERS 10
sema_t     tellers;     /* semaphore */
int banking_hours(), deposit_withdrawal;
void*customer(), do_business(), skip_banking_today();
\&.\|.\|.

sema_init(&tellers, TELLERS, USYNC_THREAD, NULL);
    /* 10 tellers available */
while(banking_hours())
    pthread_create(NULL, NULL, customer, deposit_withdrawal);
\&.\|.\|.

void *
customer(int deposit_withdrawal)
{
     int this_customer, in_a_hurry = 50;
     this_customer = rand() % 100;

     if (this_customer == in_a_hurry)  {
         if (sema_trywait(&tellers) != 0)
             if (errno == EBUSY){ /* no teller available */
                  skip_banking_today(this_customer);
                  return;
         } /* else go immediately to available teller and
                                decrement tellers */
      }
      else
         sema_wait(&tellers); /* wait for next teller, then
                                proceed, and decrement tellers */

      do_business(deposit_withdrawal);
      sema_post(&tellers); /* increment tellers; this_customer's
                              teller is now available */
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmmap\fR(2), \fBshmop\fR(2), \fBsem_close\fR(3C), \fBsem_destroy\fR(3C),
\fBsem_getvalue\fR(3C), \fBsem_init\fR(3C), \fBsem_open\fR(3C),
\fBsem_post\fR(3C), \fBsem_unlink\fR(3C), \fBsem_wait\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
These functions are also available by way of:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <thread.h>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
By default, there is no defined order of unblocking for multiple threads
waiting for a semaphore.
