.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH SETENV 3C "Mar 31, 2002"
.SH NAME
setenv \- add or change environment variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsetenv\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIenvname\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIenvval\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIoverwrite\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetenv()\fR function updates or adds a variable in the environment of
the calling process.  The \fIenvname\fR argument points to a string containing
the name of an environment variable to be added or altered. The environment
variable is set to the value to which \fIenvval\fR points. The function fails
if \fIenvname\fR points to a string which contains an '=' character. If the
environment variable named by \fIenvname\fR already exists and the value of
\fIoverwrite\fR is non-zero, the function returns successfully and the
environment is updated. If the environment variable named by \fIenvname\fR
already exists and the value of \fIoverwrite\fR is zero, the function returns
successfully and the environment remains unchanged.
.sp
.LP
If the application modifies \fIenviron\fR or the pointers to which it points,
the behavior of \fBsetenv()\fR is undefined. The \fBsetenv()\fR function
updates the list of pointers to which \fIenviron\fR points.
.sp
.LP
The strings described by \fIenvname\fR and \fIenvval\fR are copied by this
function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, -1 is returned,
\fBerrno\fR set to indicate the error, and the environment is left unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsetenv()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIenvname\fR argument is a null pointer, points to an empty string, or
points to a string containing an '=' character.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Insufficient memory was available to add a variable or its value to the
environment.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetenv\fR(3C), \fBunsetenv\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
