.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH SHM_UNLINK 3C "Feb 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
shm_unlink \- remove a shared memory object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/mman.h>

\fBint\fR \fBshm_unlink\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBshm_unlink()\fR function removes the name of the shared memory object
named by the string pointed to by \fIname\fR. If one or more references to the
shared memory object exists when the object is unlinked, the name is removed
before \fBshm_unlink()\fR returns, but the removal of the memory object
contents will be postponed until all open and mapped references to the shared
memory object have been removed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBshm_unlink()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise it
returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error condition, and
the named shared memory object is not affected by this function call.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBshm_unlink()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Permission is denied to unlink the named shared memory object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The length of the \fIname\fR string exceeds  \fBPATH_MAX\fR, or a pathname
component is longer than  \fINAME_MAX\fR while  \fB_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\fR is in
effect.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The named shared memory object does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSYS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The \fBshm_unlink()\fR function is not supported by the system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBclose\fR(2), \fBmmap\fR(2), \fBmlock\fR(3C), \fBshm_open\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Solaris 2.6 was the first release to support the Asynchronous Input and Output
option. Prior to this release, this function always returned \fB\(mi1\fR and
set \fBerrno\fR to \fBENOSYS\fR.
