.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2024 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd October 27, 2024
.Dt STDC_FIRST_LEADING_ONE 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm stdc_first_leading_one ,
.Nm stdc_first_leading_one_uc ,
.Nm stdc_first_leading_one_us ,
.Nm stdc_first_leading_one_ui ,
.Nm stdc_first_leading_one_ul ,
.Nm stdc_first_leading_one_ull
.Nd find index of most significant one bit
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdbit.h
.Ft "unsigned int"
.Fo stdc_first_leading_one
.Fa "generic_value_type value"
.Fc
.Ft "unsigned int"
.Fo stdc_first_leading_one_uc
.Fa "unsigned char value"
.Fc
.Ft "unsigned int"
.Fo stdc_first_leading_one_us
.Fa "unsigned short value"
.Fc
.Ft "unsigned int"
.Fo stdc_first_leading_one_ui
.Fa "unsigned int value"
.Fc
.Ft "unsigned int"
.Fo stdc_first_leading_one_ul
.Fa "unsigned long value"
.Fc
.Ft "unsigned int"
.Fo stdc_first_leading_one_ull
.Fa "unsigned long long value"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn stdc_first_leading_one
family of functions returns the 1s-based index of the first one bit in
.Fa value
starting at the most significant bit.
If there is no one bit in
.Fa value
then zero is returned.
.Pp
The
.Fn stdc_first_leading_one
function is generic and will operate on all 8, 16, 32, and 64-bit
unsigned integers; however, it is only available in C23.
The other functions all operate on a specific integer type, but
otherwise behave the same and are available regardless of the C language
version.
.Pp
The way that the index is constructed is not necessarily intuitive.
The C standard counts the most significant index starting with the most
significant bit as index value 0.
Consider the 16-bit value 0x952b.
Generally we would consider the value
.Sq b
as bits 0 to 3 while the value
.Sq 9
as bits 12 to 15.
Bit 15 is actually most significant index 0.
Bit 14, most significant index 1.
Bit 0, most significant index 15.
This example, 0x952b, would return the value 1
.Po
when using the generic or
.Vt unsigned short
form
.Pc
as the function is defined to return this particular index
.Em plus one .
Zero is reserved for when there is no leading zero bit at all.
.Pp
Note that if a non-zero unsigned integer is promoted, it will always be filled
with leading zeros which will cause the returned value to increase as
the first one bit is further away from the most significant bit.
.Pp
While this is similar in function to the
.Xr fls 3C
functions which find the last set value and identify the same bits, the
.Xr fls 3C
functions determine the index starting from the least significant bit,
instead of the most significant bit.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The functions in the
.Fn stdc_first_leading_one
family always return the most significant index of the first leading
one bit in
.Fa value ,
.Em plus one .
Otherwise, if there are no one bits in
.Fa value ,
0 will be returned.
These functions cannot fail.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Printing the index of the first leading one
.Pq plus one .
.Bd -literal
#include <stdbit.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <limits.h>

int
main(void)
{
	printf("0x%x 0x%x 0x%x 0x%x\en",
	    stdc_first_leading_one_uc(0x7f),
	    stdc_first_leading_one_us(0x0000),
	    stdc_first_leading_one_ui(UINT32_MAX),
	    stdc_first_leading_one_ull(0x000fedcba9abcdef));
	return (0);
}
.Ed
.Pp
When compiled and run, this produces:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ./a.out
0x2 0x0 0x1 0xd
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fls 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_ceil 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_floor 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_width 3C ,
.Xr stdc_count_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_count_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_leading_zero 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_trailing_one 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_trailing_zero 3C ,
.Xr stdc_has_single_bit 3C ,
.Xr stdc_leading_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_leading_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdc_trailing_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_trailing_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdbit.h 3HEAD
