.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2024 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd October 27, 2024
.Dt STDC_HAS_SINGLE_BIT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm stdc_has_single_bit ,
.Nm stdc_has_single_bit_uc ,
.Nm stdc_has_single_bit_us ,
.Nm stdc_has_single_bit_ui ,
.Nm stdc_has_single_bit_ul ,
.Nm stdc_has_single_bit_ull
.Nd determine if only one bit is set
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdbit.h
.Ft bool
.Fo stdc_has_single_bit
.Fa "generic_value_type value"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo stdc_has_single_bit_uc
.Fa "unsigned char value"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo stdc_has_single_bit_us
.Fa "unsigned short value"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo stdc_has_single_bit_ui
.Fa "unsigned int value"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo stdc_has_single_bit_ul
.Fa "unsigned long value"
.Fc
.Ft bool
.Fo stdc_has_single_bit_ull
.Fa "unsigned long long value"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn stdc_has_single_bit
family of functions determines whether the value has only a single bit
set.
.Fa value .
The function returns
.Dv true
if there is exactly one bit whose value is set to one in
.Fa value .
.Pp
The
.Fn stdc_has_single_bit
function is generic and will operate on all 8, 16, 32, and 64-bit
unsigned integers; however, it is only available in C23.
The other functions all operate on a specific integer type, but
otherwise behave the same and are available regardless of the C language
version.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The functions in the
.Fn stdc_has_single_bit
family return
.Dv true
if exactly one bit is set in
.Fa value .
Otherwise,
.Dv false
is returned.
These functions cannot fail.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Printing whether only a single bit is set.
.Bd -literal
#include <stdbit.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <limits.h>

int
main(void)
{
	printf("%s %s %s %s\en",
	    stdc_has_single_bit_uc(0x23) ? "true" : "false",
	    stdc_has_single_bit_us(0x0080) ? "true" : "false",
	    stdc_has_single_bit_ui(0x81941b23) ? "true" : "false",
	    stdc_has_single_bit_ull(0x00200000000000000) ?
	    "true" : "false");
	return (0);
}
.Ed
.Pp
When compiled and run, this produces:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ ./a.out
false true false true
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Async-Signal-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stdc_bit_ceil 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_floor 3C ,
.Xr stdc_bit_width 3C ,
.Xr stdc_count_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_count_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_leading_one 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_leading_zero 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_trailing_one 3C ,
.Xr stdc_first_trailing_zero 3C ,
.Xr stdc_leading_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_leading_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdc_trailing_ones 3C ,
.Xr stdc_trailing_zeros 3C ,
.Xr stdbit.h 3HEAD
