'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STRCOLL 3C "Jun 23, 2014"
.SH NAME
strcoll, strcoll_l \- string collation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstrcoll\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs1\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIs2\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBstrcoll_l\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs1\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIs2\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Both \fBstrcoll()\fR and \fBstrxfrm\fR(3C) provide for locale-specific string
sorting.  \fBstrcoll()\fR is intended for applications in which the number of
comparisons per string is small. When strings are to be compared a number of
times, \fBstrxfrm\fR(3C) is a more appropriate function because the
transformation process occurs only once.
.LP
The \fBstrcoll_l()\fR function behaves
identically to \fBstrcoll()\fR, except instead of operating in the current
locale, it operates in the locale specified by \fIloc\fR.
.LP
The \fBstrcoll()\fR function does not change the setting of \fBerrno\fR if
successful.
.LP
Since no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application wishing
to check for error situations should set \fBerrno\fR to 0, then call
\fBstrcoll()\fR, then check \fBerrno\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBstrcoll()\fR returns an integer greater than,
equal to, or less than zero in direct correlation to whether string \fIs1\fR is
greater than, equal to, or less than the string \fIs2\fR.  The comparison is
based on strings interpreted as appropriate to the locale
category \fBLC_COLLATE\fR (see \fBsetlocale\fR(3C)).
.LP
On error, \fBstrcoll()\fR may set \fBerrno\fR, but no return value is reserved
to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrcoll()\fR and \fBstrcoll_l()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIs1\fR or \fIs2\fR arguments contain characters outside the domain of the
collating sequence.
.RE
.SH FILES
.IP \fB/usr/lib/locale/\fR\fIlocale\fR\fB/LC_COLLATE/*\fR
collation database for \fIlocale\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlocaledef\fR(1), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBstring\fR(3C),
\fBstrxfrm\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBwsxfrm\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
