'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STRSIGNAL 3C "Mar 31, 2005"
.SH NAME
strsignal \- get name of signal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBstrsignal\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsig\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrsignal()\fR function maps the signal number in \fIsig\fR to a string
describing the signal and returns a pointer to that string. It uses the same
set of the messages as \fBpsignal\fR(3C). The returned string should not be
overwritten.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrsignal()\fR function returns \fINULL\fR if \fIsig\fR is not a valid
signal number.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Messages returned from this function are in the native language specified by
the \fBLC_MESSAGES\fR locale category. See \fBsetlocale\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgettext\fR(3C), \fBpsignal\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBstr2sig\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
