'\" te
.\"  Portions Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STRTOWS 3C "Dec 20, 1996"
.SH NAME
strtows, wstostr \- code conversion for Process Code and File Code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <widec.h>

\fBwchar_t *\fR\fBstrtows\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBwstostr\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBwchar_t *\fR\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrtows()\fR and \fBwstostr()\fR functions convert strings back and
forth between File Code representation and Process Code.
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrtows()\fR function takes a character string \fIsrc\fR, converts it to
a Process Code string, terminated by a Process Code null, and places the result
into \fIdst\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwstostr()\fR function takes the Process Code string pointed to by
\fIsrc\fR, converts it to a character string, and places the result into
\fIdst\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBstrtows()\fR function returns the Process Code string if it completes
successfully. Otherwise, a null pointer will be returned and \fBerrno\fR will
be set to \fBEILSEQ\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwstostr()\fR function returns the File Code string if it completes
successfully. Otherwise, a null pointer will be returned and \fBerrno\fR will
be set to \fBEILSEQ\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBwstring\fR(3C)
