'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved. Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STRXFRM 3C "Jun 21, 2014"
.SH NAME
strxfrm, strxfrm_l \- string transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <string.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBstrxfrm\fR(\fBchar *restrict\fR \fIs1\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIs2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBsize_t\fR \fBstrxfrm_l\fR(\fBchar *restrict\fR \fIs1\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIs2\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR,
    \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBstrxfrm()\fR function transforms the string pointed to by \fIs2\fR and
places the resulting string into the array pointed to by \fIs1\fR. The
transformation is such that if \fBstrcmp\fR(3C) is applied to two transformed
strings, it returns a value greater than, equal to or less than \fB0\fR,
corresponding to the result of \fBstrcoll\fR(3C) applied to the same two
original strings. No more than \fIn\fR bytes are placed into the resulting
array pointed to by \fIs1\fR, including the terminating null byte.  If \fIn\fR
is \fB0\fR, \fIs1\fR is permitted to be a null pointer. If copying takes place
between objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.
.LP
The \fBstrxfrm()\fR function does not change the setting of \fBerrno\fR if
successful.
.LP
Since no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an application wishing
to check for error situations should set \fBerrno\fR to 0, then call
\fBstrxfrm()\fR, then check \fBerrno\fR.
.LP
The \fBstrxfrm_l()\fR functions behaves identically to the function
\fBstrxfrm()\fR, except instead of operating in the current locale it
operates in the locale specified by the argument \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBstrxfrm()\fR returns the length of the
transformed string (not including the terminating null byte). If the value
returned is \fIn\fR or more, the contents of the array pointed to by \fIs1\fR
are indeterminate.
.LP
On error, \fBstrxfrm()\fR may set \fBerrno\fR but no return value is reserved
to indicate the error.
.SH USAGE
.LP
The transformation function is such that two transformed strings can be ordered
by \fBstrcmp\fR(3C) as appropriate to collating sequence information in the
locale (category \fBLC_COLLATE\fR).
.LP
The fact that when \fIn\fR is \fB0\fR, \fIs1\fR is permitted to be a null
pointer, is useful to determine the size of the \fIs1\fR array prior to making
the transformation.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample of using the \fBstrxfm()\fR function.
.LP
The value of the following expression is the size of the array needed to hold
the transformation of the string pointed to by \fIs\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
1 + strxfrm(NULL, s, 0);
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.IP \fB/usr/lib/locale/\fR\fIlocale\fR\fB/LC_COLLATE/*
collation database for \fIlocale\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBlocaledef\fR(1), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBstrcmp\fR(3C),
\fBstrcoll\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBwscoll\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
