'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SYSTEM 3C "Dec 14, 2006"
.SH NAME
system \- issue a shell command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsystem\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstring\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsystem()\fR function causes \fIstring\fR to be given to the shell as
input, as if \fIstring\fR had been typed as a command at a terminal. The
invoker waits until the shell has completed, then returns the exit status of
the shell in the format specified by \fBwaitpid\fR(3C).
.sp
.LP
If \fIstring\fR is a null pointer, \fBsystem()\fR checks if the shell exists
and is executable.  If the shell is available, \fBsystem()\fR returns a
non-zero value; otherwise, it returns \fB0\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsystem()\fR function sets the \fBSIGINT\fR and \fBSIGQUIT\fR signals to
be ignored, and blocks the \fBSIGCHLD\fR signal for the calling thread, while
waiting for the command to terminate. The \fBsystem()\fR function does not
affect the termination status of any child of the calling processes other than
the process it creates.
.sp
.LP
The termination status of the process created by the \fBsystem()\fR function is
not affected by the actions of other threads in the calling process (it is
invisible to \fBwait\fR(3C)) or by the disposition of the \fBSIGCHLD\fR signal
in the calling process, even if it is set to be ignored. No \fBSIGCHLD\fR
signal is sent to the process containing the calling thread when the command
terminates.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBsystem()\fR function executes \fBposix_spawn\fR(3C) to create a child
process running the shell that in turn executes the commands in \fIstring\fR.
If \fBposix_spawn()\fR fails, \fBsystem()\fR returns \fB\(mi1\fR and sets
\fBerrno\fR to indicate the error; otherwise the exit status of the shell is
returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBsystem()\fR function may set \fBerrno\fR values as described by
\fBfork\fR(2), in particular:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A resource control or  limit on the total number of  processes, tasks or LWPs
under execution by a single user,  task,  project, or  zone has been exceeded,
or the total amount of system memory available  is temporarily insufficient to
duplicate this process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There is not enough swap space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The  {\fBPRIV_PROC_FORK\fR} privilege is  not asserted in the effective set of
the calling process.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The \fBsystem()\fR function manipulates the signal handlers for \fBSIGINT\fR
and \fBSIGQUIT\fR. It is therefore not safe to call \fBsystem()\fR in a
multithreaded process, since some other thread that manipulates these signal
handlers and a thread that concurrently calls \fBsystem()\fR can interfere with
each other in a destructive manner.  If, however, no such other thread is
active, \fBsystem()\fR can safely be called concurrently from multiple threads.
See \fBpopen\fR(3C) for an alternative to \fBsystem()\fR that is thread-safe.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBksh\fR(1), \fBsh\fR(1), \fBpopen\fR(3C), \fBposix_spawn\fR(3C),
\fBwait\fR(3C), \fBwaitpid\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
