.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH TCFLOW 3C "Aug 14, 2002"
.SH NAME
tcflow \- suspend or restart the transmission or reception of data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <termios.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtcflow\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBint\fR \fIaction\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcflow()\fR function suspends transmission or reception of data on the
object referred to by \fIfildes\fR, depending on the value of \fIaction\fR. The
\fIfildes\fR argument is an open file descriptor associated with a terminal.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIaction\fR is \fBTCOOFF\fR, output is suspended.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIaction\fR is \fBTCOON\fR, suspended output is restarted.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIaction\fR is \fBTCIOFF\fR, the system transmits a \fBSTOP\fR character,
which is intended to cause the terminal device to stop transmitting data to the
system.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If \fIaction\fR is \fBTCION\fR, the system transmits a \fBSTART\fR character,
which is intended to cause the terminal device to start transmitting data to
the system.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The default on the opening of a terminal file is that neither its input nor its
output are suspended.
.sp
.LP
Attempts to use \fBtcflow()\fR from a process which is a member of a background
process group on a \fIfildes\fR associated with its controlling terminal, will
cause the process group to be sent a \fBSIGTTOU\fR signal. If the calling
process is blocking or ignoring \fBSIGTTOU\fR signals, the process is allowed
to perform the operation, and no signal is sent.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcflow()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIaction\fR argument is not a supported value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The file associated with \fIfildes\fR is not a terminal.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBtcflow()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
The process group of the writing process is orphaned, and the writing process
is not ignoring or blocking \fBSIGTTOU\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe, and Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtcsendbreak\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5),
\fBtermio\fR(7I)
