'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TCGETATTR 3C "Aug 14, 2002"
.SH NAME
tcgetattr \- get the parameters associated with the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <termios.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtcgetattr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBstruct termios *\fR\fItermios_p\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcgetattr()\fR function gets the parameters associated with the terminal
referred to by \fIfildes\fR and stores them in the \fBtermios\fR structure (see
\fBtermio\fR(7I)) referenced by \fItermios_p\fR. The \fIfildes\fR argument is
an open file descriptor associated with a terminal.
.sp
.LP
The \fItermios_p\fR argument is a pointer to a \fBtermios\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcgetattr()\fR operation is allowed from any process.
.sp
.LP
If the terminal device supports different input and output baud rates, the baud
rates stored in the \fBtermios\fR structure returned by \fBtcgetattr()\fR
reflect the actual baud rates, even if they are equal. If differing baud rates
are not supported, the rate returned as the output baud rate is the actual baud
rate. If the terminal device does not support split baud rates, the input baud
rate stored in the \fBtermios\fR structure will be 0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcgetattr()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The file associated with \fIfildes\fR is not a terminal.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe, and Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtcsetattr\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
