.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH TCSETPGRP 3C "Aug 14, 2002"
.SH NAME
tcsetpgrp \- set foreground process group ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtcsetpgrp\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBpid_t\fR \fIpgid_id\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
If the process has a controlling terminal, \fBtcsetpgrp()\fR will set the
foreground process group \fBID\fR associated with the terminal to
\fIpgid_id\fR. The file associated with \fIfildes\fR must be the controlling
terminal of the calling process and the controlling terminal must be currently
associated with the session of the calling process. The value of \fIpgid_id\fR
must match a process group \fBID\fR of a process in the same session as the
calling process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, \fB\(mi1\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBtcsetpgrp()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIfildes\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
This implementation does not support the value in the \fIpgid_id\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The calling process does not have a controlling terminal, or the file is not
the controlling terminal, or the controlling terminal is no longer associated
with the session of the calling process.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The process is not ignoring or holding \fBSIGTTOU\fR and is a member of an
orphaned process group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIpgid_id\fR does not match the process group \fBID\fR of a
process in the same session as the calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe, and Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtcgetpgrp\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
