.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 IEEE.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH THR_GETPRIO 3C "Apr 1, 2008"
.SH NAME
thr_getprio, thr_setprio \- access dynamic thread scheduling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR...[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <thread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBthr_setprio\fR(\fBthread_t\fR \fItarget_thread\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpriority\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBthr_getprio\fR(\fBthread_t\fR \fItarget_thread\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIpriority\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBthr_setprio()\fR function sets the scheduling priority for the thread
specified by target_thread within the current process to the value given by
priority.
.sp
.LP
The \fBthr_getprio()\fR function stores the current priority for the thread
specified by \fItarget_thread\fR in the location pointed to by \fIpriority\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the \fBthr_setprio()\fR function fails, the scheduling priority of the
target thread is not changed.
.sp
.LP
See \fBpriocntl\fR(2), \fBpthread_setschedprio\fR(3C), and
\fBsched_setparam\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If successful, the \fBthr_getprio()\fR and \fBthr_setprio()\fR functions return
\fB0\fR. Otherwise, an error number is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBthr_getprio()\fR and \fBthr_setprio()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The value specified by \fItarget_thread\fR does not refer to an existing
thread.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The  \fBthr_setprio()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIpriority\fR is invalid for the scheduling policy of the
specified thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The caller does not have the appropriate permission to set the priority to the
value specified.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpriocntl\fR(2), \fBpthread_setschedprio\fR(3C), \fBsched_setparam\fR(3C),
\fBthr_create\fR(3C), \fBthr_suspend\fR(3C), \fBthr_yield\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
