'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH THR_GETCONCURRENCY 3C "May 11, 1998"
.SH NAME
thr_getconcurrency, thr_setconcurrency \- get or set thread concurrency level
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc -mt [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR...[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <thread.h>

\fBint\fR \fBthr_setconcurrency\fR(\fBint\fR \fInew_level\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBthr_getconcurrency\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions are obsolete and maintained for compatibility only.  The
\fBthr_setconcurrency()\fR function updates the desired concurrency level that
\fBlibthread\fR maintains for the calling process. This value does not affect
the behavior of the calling process.
.sp
.LP
The \fBthr_getconcurrency()\fR function returns the current value for the
desired concurrency level.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBthr_getconcurrency()\fR function always returns the current value for
the desired concurrency level.
.sp
.LP
If successful, the  \fBthr_setconcurrency()\fR function returns  \fB0\fR.
Otherwise, a non-zero value is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBthr_setconcurrency()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The specified concurrency level would cause a system resource to be exceeded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The value for \fInew_level\fR is negative.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBthr_create\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
