.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd "Jan 13, 2015"
.Dt THRD_JOIN 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_join
.Nd wait for thread termination
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In threads.h
.Ft int
.Fo thrd_join
.Fa "thrd_t thrd"
.Fa "int *res"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn thrd_join
function suspends the exection of the current thread and waits for the
thread indicated by
.Fa thrd
to terminate and stores the exit status, as set by a call to
.Xr thrd_exit 3C ,
for that thread in
.Fa res ,
if
.Fa res
is non-null.
The
.Fa thrd
argument must be a member of the current process and it cannot be
detached.
If
.Fa thrd
has already terminated and another caller has not called
.Fn thrd_join
then the exit status will be returned to the caller without blocking
execution of the thread.
.Pp
If multiple threads call
.Fn thrd_join
on the same thread, then both will be suspended until that thread
terminates; however, only one thread will return successfully and obtain
the actual status and the other will instead return with an error.
.Pp
For additional information on the thread joining interfaces supported by
the system, see
.Xr pthread_join 3C
and
.Xr thr_join 3C .
.Sh RETURN_VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn thrd_join
function returns
.Sy thrd_success
and if
.Fa res
is a non-null pointer, it will be filled in with the exit status of
.Fa thrd .
If an error occurs,
.Sy thrd_error
will be returned.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_join 3C ,
.Xr thrd_create 3C ,
.Xr thrd_detach 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr threads 5
