.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd "Jan 13, 2015"
.Dt THRD_CREATE 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_create
.Nd create a thread
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In threads.h
.Vt "typedef int (*thrd_start_t)(void *);"
.Ft int
.Fo thrd_create
.Fa "thrd_t *thrdp"
.Fa "thrd_start_t func"
.Fa "void *arg"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn thrd_create
function creates a new thread of execution inside of the current
process and stores its identifier in
.Fa thrdp .
Each thread operates concurrently within the process.
.Pp
When a thread is created, it begins its execution at the function
.Fa func
with the argument
.Fa arg .
A created thread has access to all global data within a process;
however, it has its own private stack. Currently 32-bit processes have a
default stack of 1 megabyte, while 64-bit systems have a default stack
size of 2 megabytes. In addition, newly created threads inherit the
signal mask of the thread which created them; however, they do not
inherit any pending signals.
.Pp
Once created, a thread will continue to execute until either, it returns
from its initial function, the thread explicitly calls
.Xr thrd_exit 3C ,
or the process itself terminates, such as with a call to
.Xr exit 2 .
When the initial function returns, it behaves as though a call to
.Xr thrd_exit
was made, and, if the thread has not been detached with a call to
.Xr thrd_detach,
the exit status remains available and the corresponding thread ID will
not be reused until a process calls
.Xr thrd_join 3C .
This is similar to how a parent must call
.Xr wait 2 ,
to clean up a child process that has terminated.
.Pp
For a richer interface interface with more control over aspects of the
newly created thread, such as stack size, stack placement, and the like,
see
.Xr thr_create 3C
and
.Xr pthread_create 3C .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn thrd_create
function returns
.Sy thrd_success .
If insufficient memory was available, then
.Sy thrd_nomem
is returned. Otherwise,
.Sy thrd_error
is returned, indicating that a non-memory related error.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_create 3C ,
.Xr thr_create 3C ,
.Xr thrd_detach 3C ,
.Xr thrd_join 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr threads 5
