.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd "Jan 13, 2015"
.Dt THRD_EXIT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thrd_exit
.Nd terminate a thread
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In threads.h
.Ft "_Noreturn void"
.Fo thrd_exit
.Fa "int res"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn thrd_exit
function terminates the calling thread, in a similar way that
.Xr exit 3C
terminates the calling process.
If the calling thread has not been detached, then the exit status information
provided in
.Fa res
is saved and can be retrieved by the use of the
.Xr thrd_join 3C
function.
.Pp
When the thread exits, all signals will be blocked and various
destructors and clean up handlers will be called, such as those
registered with
.Xr tss_create 3C .
The act of thread termination does not cause any process-wide resources,
such as mutexes and file descriptors to be released.
.Pp
If a thread, other than the thread in which
.Fn main
was first invoked returns from its starting routine, it will implicitly
call
.Fn thrd_exit
and set the return value to be its exit status.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn thrd_exit
function does not return, the calling thread is terminated.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_exit 3C ,
.Xr thr_exit 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr threads 5
