.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2025 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd "January 12, 2025"
.Dt TIMESPEC_GET 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm timespec_get ,
.Nm timespec_getres
.Nd get time information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In time.h
.Ft int
.Fo timespec_get
.Fa "struct timespec *ts"
.Fa "int base"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo timespec_getres
.Fa "struct timespec *ts"
.Fa "int base"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn timespec_get
function provides access to nanosecond resolution time.
The
.Fn timespec_getres
function provides access to the underlying clock's resolution.
The meaning and source of time is defined by the
.Fa base
argument.
The following values are defined for
.Fa base :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv TIME_UTC
Obtain the current time of day from the realtime clock on the system.
It represents the amount of time in second and nanoseconds since the Epoch.
This is logically equivalent to calling
.Xr clock_gettime 3C
with
.Dv CLOCK_REALTIME .
.It Dv TIME_MONOTONIC
The system's monotonic clock is a non-adjustable, high-resolution clock.
The returned value is not subject to adjustments from time of day drift
nor can it be set.
This clock is generally only useful for measuring elapsed time relative
to a prior reading.
This is logically equivalent to using the
.Dv CLOCK_HIGHRES
and
.Dv CLOCK_MONOTONIC
clocks or calling
.Xr gethrtime 3C .
.It Dv TIME_THREAD_ACTIVE
This clock measures the elapsed system and user CPU-time of the current
thread.
The amount of time it has spent executing code is measured in seconds
and nanoseconds.
The
.Fa pr_utime
member of the
.Vt lwpsinfo_t
or
.Vt prusage_t
structures discussed in
.Xr proc 5
are alternative ways to see the user component.
The system component is a combination of both the system and trap time
that the thread has experienced.
In the
.Vt lwpsinfo_t
this is covered solely by the
.Fa pr_stime
member.
For the
.Vt prusage_t
these are separated out into the
.Fa pr_stime
and
.Fa pr_ttime
members respectively.
.Pp
This is logically equivalent to using the
.Dv CLOCK_THREAD_CPUTIME_ID
clock .
This clock is optional and may not be present on other platforms.
.It Dv TIME_THREAD_ACTIVE_USR
This clock is similar to the
.Dv TIME_THREAD_ACTIVE
clock, except it only counts user time that has elapsed.
This is logically equivalent to using the
.Dv CLOCK_VIRTUAL
clock or calling
.Xr gethrvtime 3C .
This clock is an extension and may not be available on other platforms.
.It Dv TIME_ACTIVE
This clock measures the elapsed system and user CPU-time of the current
process, including all of its threads.
None of the process's children are counted in this measure, whether
running or terminated.
The value read here will be the same as combining the corresponding
.Xr proc 5
.Vt psinfo_t
structure's
.Fa pr_stime
and
.Fa pr_utime
members.
This clock is optional and may not be present on other platforms.
.El
.Pp
For the definition of the
.Vt timespec
structure, see
.Xr time.h 3HEAD .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn timespec_get
and
.Fn timespec_getres
functions return the passed in value of
.Fa base .
Otherwise,
.Sy 0
is returned to represent an error.
.Sh ERRORS
Unlike other functions, the
.Fn timespec_get
and
.Fn timespec_getres
functions are not defined to set
.Vt errno .
However, the
.Fn timespec_get
and
.Fn timespec_getres
functions will fail if:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
The value of
.Fa base
does not refer to a known time specification.
.It
There was an error obtaining the time for
.Fa base .
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr clock_getres 3C ,
.Xr clock_gettime 3C ,
.Xr gethrtime 3C ,
.Xr gethrvtime 3C ,
.Xr time.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr attributes 7
