.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH TIMER_CREATE 3C "Sep 15, 2015"
.SH NAME
timer_create \- create a timer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>
#include <time.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtimer_create\fR(\fBclockid_t\fR \fIclock_id\fR,
     \fBstruct sigevent *restrict\fR \fIevp\fR, \fBtimer_t *restrict\fR \fItimerid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBtimer_create()\fR function creates a timer using the specified clock,
\fIclock_id\fR, as the timing base. The \fBtimer_create()\fR function returns,
in the location referenced by \fItimerid\fR, a timer \fBID\fR of type
\fBtimer_t\fR used to identify the timer in timer requests. This timer \fBID\fR
will be unique within the calling process until the timer is deleted. The
particular clock, \fIclock_id\fR, is defined in <\fBtime.h\fR>. The timer whose
\fBID\fR is returned will be in a disarmed state upon return from
\fBtimer_create()\fR, and can be started using \fBtimer_settime\fR(3C).
.LP
The \fIevp\fR argument, if non-null, points to a \fBsigevent\fR structure. This
structure, allocated by the application, defines the asynchronous notification
that will occur when the timer expires (see \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) for event
notification details). If the \fIevp\fR argument is \fINULL\fR, the effect is
as if the \fIevp\fR argument pointed to a \fBsigevent\fR structure with the
\fBsigev_notify\fR member having the value \fBSIGEV_SIGNAL\fR, the
\fBsigev_signo\fR having the value \fBSIGALRM\fR, and the \fBsigev_value\fR
member having the value of the timer \fBID\fR.
.LP
The system defines a set of clocks that can be used as timing bases for
per-process timers. The following values for \fIclock_id\fR are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOCK_REALTIME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
wall clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOCK_VIRTUAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
user CPU usage clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOCK_PROF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
user and system CPU usage clock
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCLOCK_HIGHRES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
non-adjustable, high-resolution clock
.RE

.sp
.LP
For timers created with a \fIclock_id\fR of \fBCLOCK_HIGHRES\fR, the system
will attempt to use an optimal hardware source. This may include, but is not
limited to, per-CPU timer sources.  The actual hardware source used is
transparent to the user and may change over the lifetime of the timer. For
example, if the caller that created the timer were to change its processor
binding or its processor set, the system may elect to drive the timer with a
hardware source  that better reflects the new binding. Timers based on a
\fIclock_id\fR of \fBCLOCK_HIGHRES\fR are ideally suited for interval timers
that have minimal jitter tolerance.
.LP
Timers are not inherited by a child process across a \fBfork\fR(2) and are
disarmed and deleted by a call to one of the \fBexec\fR functions (see
\fBexec\fR(2)).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBtimer_create()\fR returns \fB0\fR and updates
the location referenced by \fItimerid\fR to a \fBtimer_t\fR, which can be
passed to the per-process timer calls. If an error occurs, the function returns
\fB\(mi1\fR and sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error. The value of
\fItimerid\fR is undefined if an error occurs.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBtimer_create()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The system lacks sufficient signal queuing resources to honor the request, or
the calling process has already created all of the timers it is allowed by the
system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The specified clock \fBID\fR, \fIclock_id\fR, is not defined.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The specified clock \fBID\fR, \fIclock_id\fR, is \fBCLOCK_HIGHRES\fR and the
{\fBPRIV_PROC_CLOCK_HIGHRES\fR} is not asserted in the effective set of the
calling process.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
_
Standard	See \fBstandards\fR(5).
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBexec\fR(2), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBtime\fR(2), \fBclock_settime\fR(3C),
\fBsignal\fR(3C), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBtimer_delete\fR(3C),
\fBtimer_settime\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBprivileges\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
