'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TOUPPER 3C "Oct 4, 2015"
.SH NAME
toupper, toupper_l \- transliterate lower-case characters to upper-case
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <ctype.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtoupper\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtoupper_l\fR(\fBint\fR \fIc\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBtoupper()\fR function has as a domain of type \fBint\fR, the value of
which is representable as an \fBunsigned char\fR or the value of \fBEOF\fR. If
the argument has any other value, the argument is returned unchanged. If the
argument of \fBtoupper()\fR represents a lower-case letter, and there exists a
corresponding upper-case letter (as defined by character type information in
the locale category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR),   the result is the corresponding
upper-case letter. All other arguments in the domain are returned unchanged.
.LP
The function \fBtoupper_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBtoupper()\fR, except
instead of operating in the current locale, it operates in the locale
specified by \fIloc\fR.
.LP
A macro form, \fB_toupper()\fR exists. It is defined for standards
conformance, particularly with legacy standards. It was deprecated in
POSIX 2008 (Issue 7), and its use is discouraged. The macro, on this
system, is just an alias for \fBtoupper()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On successful completion, \fBtoupper()\fR returns the upper-case letter
corresponding to the argument passed.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C),
\fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
