'\" te
.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 Joyent, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.TH TOWLOWER 3C "Jun 21, 2014"
.SH NAME
towlower, towlower_l \- transliterate upper-case wide characters to lower-case
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wctype.h>

\fBwint_t\fR \fBtowlower\fR(\fBwint_t\fR \fIwc\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBwint_t\fR \fBtowlower_l\fR(\fBwint_t\fR \fIwc\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.nf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR towlower()
is the wide character equivalent of the function
.BR tolower (3C).
It converts the upper-case wide character
.I wc
to the equivalent lower-case
wide character, if one exists. If one does not exist, it returns
.I wc
unchanged.
.LP
The function
.B towlower_l()
is equivalent to the function
.BR towlower() ,
but instead of operating in the current locale, operates in the
locale specified by
.IR loc .
.SH RETURN VALUES
On successful completion,
.B towlower()
and
.B towlower_l()
return the lower-case character that corresponds to the argument passed.
Otherwise, they return the argument unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR newlocale (3C),
.BR setlocale (3C),
.BR towupper (3C),
.BR uselocale (3C),
.BR locale (5)
