.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd "Jan 11, 2015"
.Dt TSS 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tss ,
.Nm tss_create ,
.Nm tss_destroy ,
.Nm tss_get ,
.Nm tss_set
.Nd thread-specific storage
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In threads.h
.Vt "typedef void (*tss_dtor_t)(void *);"
.Ft int
.Fo tss_create
.Fa "tss_t *key"
.Fa "tss_dtor_t dtor"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo tss_delete
.Fa "tss_t key"
.Fc
.Ft void *
.Fo tss_get
.Fa "tss_t key"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo tss_set
.Fa "tss_t key"
.Fa "void *val"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Sy tss
family of functions create, get, set, and destroy thread-specific
storage.
.Ss Creating and Destorying Thread-Specific Storage
The
.Fn tss_create
function creates a new thread-specific data key. The key space is opaque
and global to all threads in the process. Each thread has its own
value-space which can be manipulated with the
.Fn tss_get
and
.Fn tss_set
functions. A given key persists until
.Fn tss_destroy
is called.
.Pp
When a key is created, the value
.Dv NULL
is associated with all current threads. When a thread is created, the
value
.Dv NULL
is assigned as the value for the entire key-space.
.Pp
A key may optionally be created with a destructor function
.Fa dtor .
The function
.Fa dtor
will run when the thread exits (see
.Xr thrd_exit 3C )
if the value for the key is not
.Dv NULL .
The key space's destructors may be run in any order. When the destructor
is run due to a thread exiting, all signals will be blocked.
.Pp
The
.Fn tss_delete
function deletes the key identify by
.Fa key
from the global name-space. When a key is deleted, no registered
destructor is called, it is up to the calling program to free any
storage that was associated with
.Fa key
across all threads. Because of this propety, it is legal to call
.Fn tss_delete
from inside a destructor. Any destructors that had been assocaited with
.Fa key
will no longer be called when a thread terminates.
.Ss Obtaining Values
The
.Fn tss_get
function may be used to obtain the value associated with
.Fa key
for the calling thread. Note that if the calling thread has never set a
value, then it will receive the default value,
.Dv NULL .
.Fn tss_get
may be called from a tss destructor.
.Ss Setting Values
The
.Fn tss_set
function sets the value of the key
.Fa key
for the callling thread to
.Fa value ,
which may be obtained by subsequent calls to
.Fa tss_get .
To remove a value for a specific thread, one may pass
.Dv NULL
in as
.Fa value .
Changing the value of a key with
.Fn tss_set
does not cause any destructors to be invoked. This means that
.Fn tss_set
may be used in the context of a destructor, but special care must be
taken to avoid leaking storage or causing an infinite loop.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tss_create
and
.Fn tss_set
functions return
.Sy thrd_success .
Otherwise, they return
.Sy thrd_error
to indicate that an error occurred.
.Pp
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn tss_get
function returns the thread-specific value associated with the given
.Fa key .
If no thread-specific value is associated with the key or an invalid key
was passed in, then
.Dv NULL
is returned.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pthread_getspecific 3C ,
.Xr pthread_key_create 3C ,
.Xr pthread_key_delete 3C ,
.Xr pthread_setspecific 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5
