'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TTYSLOT 3C "Oct 27, 1998"
.SH NAME
ttyslot \- find the slot of the current user  in the user accounting database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBttyslot\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBttyslot()\fR function returns the index of the current user's entry in
the user accounting database, \fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR. The current user's entry is
an entry for which the \fButline\fR member matches the name of a terminal
device associated with any of the process's file descriptors 0, 1 or 2. The
index is an ordinal number representing the record number in the database of
the current user's entry.  The first entry in the database is represented by
the return value 0.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBttyslot()\fR returns the index of the current
user's entry in the user accounting database. If an error was encountered while
searching for the terminal name or if none of the above file descriptors are
associated with a terminal device, \fB\(mi1\fR is returned.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
user access and accounting information
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgetutent\fR(3C), \fBttyname\fR(3C), \fButmpx\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
