.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions
.\" for redistribution.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1980 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.Dd "Aug 16, 2014"
.Dt UALARM 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ualarm
.Nd schedule signal after interval in microseconds
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In unistd.h
.Ft useconds_t
.Fn ualarm "useconds_t useconds" "useconds_t interval"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ualarm
function causes the
.Dv SIGALRM
signal to be generated for
the calling process after the number of real-time microseconds specified by the
.Fa useconds
argument has elapsed.
When the
.Fa interval
argument is
non-zero, repeated timeout notification occurs with a period in microseconds
specified by the
.Fa interval
argument.
If the notification signal,
.Dv SIGALRM ,
is not caught or ignored, the calling process is terminated.
.Lp
Because of scheduling delays, resumption of execution when the signal is caught
may be delayed an arbitrary amount of time.
.Lp
Interactions between
.Fn ualarm
and either
.Xr alarm 2
or
.Xr sleep 3C
are unspecified.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn ualarm
function returns the number of microseconds remaining from
the previous
.Fn ualarm
call.
If no timeouts are pending or if
.Fn ualarm
has not previously been called,
.Fn ualarm
returns 0.
.Sh ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.Sh USAGE
The
.Fn ualarm
function is a simplified interface to
.Xr setitimer 2 ,
and uses the
.Dv ITIMER_REAL
interval timer.
It's use has been deprecated in favor of the
.Xr timer_create 3C
family of functions.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Obsolete Standard .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr alarm 2 ,
.Xr setitimer 2 ,
.Xr sighold 3C ,
.Xr signal 3C ,
.Xr sleep 3C ,
.Xr timer_create 3C ,
.Xr usleep 3C ,
.Xr unistd.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn ualarm
function is available in the following compilation environments.
See
.Xr standards 5 .
.Lp
.Bl -bullet -compact
.\".It
.\".St -p1003.1-90
.\".It
.\".St -p1003.1b-93
.\".It
.\".St -p1003.1c-95
.\".It
.\".St -p1003.1-2001
.\".It
.\".St -xpg3
.\".It
.\".St -xpg4
.It
.St -xpg4.2
.It
.St -susv2
.It
.St -susv3
.El
.Lp
It is marked obsolete in
.St -susv3 , and was removed from
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
