.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2023 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd January 24, 2023
.Dt UCONTEXT_ALLOC 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ucontext_alloc ,
.Nm ucontext_free
.Nd allocate and free ucontext structures
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In ucontext.h
.Ft "ucontext_t *"
.Fo ucontext_alloc
.Fa "uint32_t flags"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo ucontext_free
.Fa "ucontext_t *ucp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ucontext_alloc
function allocates and initializes a
.Vt ucontext_t
structure for subsequent use with functions such as
.Xr getcontext_extd 2
or
.Xr swapcontext_extd 3C .
.Pp
Traditionally applications declare the
.Vt ucontext_t
structure on the stack, as part of another structure, or in other global data.
Due to the advent of extended states
.Pq such as the x86 xsave state
the traditional structure is not sufficient to capture all state.
The
.Fn ucontext_alloc
function determines the correct size for the current process to cover all of its
extended states in addition to the standard
.Vt ucontext_t
and then proceeds to set up the other members of the
.Vt ucontext_t
to point at the additional memory.
.Pp
It is not recommended that the returned
.Vt ucontext
structure be used with either
.Xr getcontext 2
or
.Xr swapcontext 3C .
While the resulting calls will work, they will not preserve that space for the
extended state has been allocated.
No memory will be leaked as a result of that.
.Pp
The
.Fn ucontext_free
function is used to release all the memory associated with
.Fa ucp .
.Fa ucp
must have come from a prior call to
.Fn ucontext_alloc .
If it is not, then it is undefined as to what will happen to the program, but it
will result in eventual memory corruption.
If
.Fa ucp
was declared on the stack, as a structure member, as global data, or allocated
in some way that wasn't calling
.Fn ucontext_alloc ,
do not pass it to
.Fn ucontext_free .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn ucontext_alloc
function returns a pointer to an allocated
.Vt ucontext_t .
Otherwise
.Dv NULL
is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn ucontext_alloc
function will set
.Va errno
based on the failure of the underlying memory allocator.
For more information and details on these errors, see
.Xr malloc 3C ,
the list of errors below may not be exhaustive.
.Pp
The
.Fn ucontext_alloc
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
The
.Fa flags
argument had unknown or unsupported values.
.It Er ENOMEM
There was insufficient memory to allocate an extended ucontext
structure.
See
.Xr malloc 3C
for more information.
.It Er EAGAIN
There was insufficient memory to allocate an extended ucontext
structure, but the application could try again later.
See
.Xr malloc 3C
for more information.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
