.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 1997, The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2022 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd February 5, 2022
.Dt UNLOCKPT 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm unlockpt
.Nd unlock a pseudo-terminal device pair
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdlib.h
.Ft int
.Fo unlockpt
.Fa "int fildes"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
When a pseudo-terminal manager device is opened, whether through
.Xr posix_openpt 3C
or
.Xr open 2
on a
.Xr ptm 7D
device, the subsidiary device begins operation in a locked state.
The
.Fn unlockpt
function unlocks the pseudo-terminal subsidiary device associated with the
manager device to which
.Fa fildes
refers.
.Pp
Portable applications must call
.Fn unlockpt
before opening the pseudo-terminal subsidiary device.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std unlockpt
.Sh EXAMPLES
See
.Xr posix_openpt 3C
for an example that includes a call to
.Fn unlockpt .
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn unlockpt
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EBADF
The
.Fa fildes
argument is not a file descriptor open for writing.
.It Er EINVAL
EINVAL
The
.Fa fildes
argument is not associated with a pseudo-terminal manager device.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT LEVEL
.Sy Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr open 2 ,
.Xr grantpt 3C ,
.Xr posix_openpt 3C ,
.Xr ptsname 3C ,
.Xr attributes 5 ,
.Xr standards 5 ,
.Xr ptm 7D
