.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH WAIT 3C "Jun 9, 2004"
.SH NAME
wait \- wait for child process to stop or terminate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/wait.h>

\fBpid_t\fR \fBwait\fR(\fBint *\fR\fIstat_loc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwait()\fR function will suspend execution of the calling thread until
status information for one of its terminated child processes is available, or
until delivery of a signal whose action is either to execute a signal-catching
function or to terminate the process. If more than one thread is suspended in
\fBwait()\fR, \fBwaitpid\fR(3C), or \fBwaitid\fR(2) awaiting termination of the
same process, exactly one thread will return the process status at the time of
the target process termination. If status information is available prior to the
call to \fBwait()\fR, return will be immediate.
.sp
.LP
If \fBwait()\fR returns because the status of a child process is available, it
returns the process \fBID\fR of the child process. If the calling process
specified a non-zero value for \fIstat_loc\fR, the status of the child process
is stored in the location pointed to by \fIstat_loc\fR. That status can be
evaluated with the macros described on the \fBwait.h\fR(3HEAD) manual page.
.sp
.LP
In the following, \fIstatus\fR is the object pointed to by \fIstat_loc\fR:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the child process terminated due to an \fB_exit()\fR call, the low order 8
bits of \fIstatus\fR will be 0 and the high order 8 bits will contain the low
order 7 bits of the argument that the child process passed to \fB_exit()\fR;
see \fBexit\fR(2).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If the child process terminated due to a signal, the high order 8 bits of
\fIstatus\fR will be 0 and the low order 7bits will contain the number of the
signal that caused the termination. In addition, if  \fBWCOREFLG\fR is set, a
"core image" will have been  produced; see \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD) and
\fBwait.h\fR(3HEAD).
.RE
.sp
.LP
One instance of a \fBSIGCHLD\fR signal is queued for each child process whose
status has changed. If \fBwait()\fR returns because the status of a child
process is available, any pending \fBSIGCHLD\fR signal associated with the
process ID of that child process is discarded. Any other pending \fBSIGCHLD\fR
signals remain pending.
.sp
.LP
If the calling process has \fBSA_NOCLDWAIT\fR set or has \fBSIGCHLD\fR set to
\fBSIG_IGN\fR, and the process has no unwaited children that were transformed
into zombie processes, it will block until all of its children terminate, and
\fBwait()\fR will fail and set \fBerrno\fR to \fBECHILD\fR.
.sp
.LP
If a parent process terminates without waiting for its child processes to
terminate, the parent process \fBID\fR of each child process is set to 1, with
the initialization process inheriting the child processes; see \fBIntro\fR(2).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
When \fBwait()\fR returns due to a terminated child process, the process
\fBID\fR of the child is returned to the calling process. Otherwise,
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBwait()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBECHILD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The calling process has no existing unwaited-for child processes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINTR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The function was interrupted by a signal.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Since \fBwait()\fR blocks on a stopped child, a calling process wanting to see
the return results of such a call should use \fBwaitpid\fR(3C) or
\fBwaitid\fR(2) instead of \fBwait()\fR. The \fBwait()\fR function is
implemented as a call to \fBwaitpid(-1, stat_loc, 0)\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	Async-Signal-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBIntro\fR(2), \fBexec\fR(2), \fBexit\fR(2), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBpause\fR(2),
\fBwaitid\fR(2), \fBptrace\fR(3C), \fBsignal\fR(3C), \fBsignal.h\fR(3HEAD),
\fBwaitpid\fR(3C), \fBwait.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5)
