.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.Dd "Jul 27, 2014"
.Dt WCPCPY 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wcpcpy ,
.Nm wcpncpy
.Nd copy a wide-character string and return a pointer to its end
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In wchar.h
.
.Ft "wchar_t *"
.Fo wcpcpy
.Fa "wchar_t *restrict ws1"
.Fa "const wchar_t *restrict ws2"
.Fc
.
.Ft "wchar_t *"
.Fo wcpncpy
.Fa "wchar_t *restrict ws1"
.Fa "const wchar_t *restrict ws2"
.Fa "size_t n"
.Fc
.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn wcpcpy
and
.Fn wcpncpy
functions copy the wide-character string pointed to by
.Fa ws2
into the location pointed to by
.Fa ws1 .
They stop copying after a null wide-character is copied, or in the case
of
.Fn wcpncpy ,
after
.Fa n
wide-characters have been copied. If
.Fa ws2
contains fewer than
.Fa n
wide-characters, then the
.Fn wcpncpy
function pads wide-characters to the end of the destination
.Fa ws1
until exactly
.Fa n
wide-characters have been written.
.Lp
In the case of
.Fn wcpncpy
a terminating null wide-character will
.Em not
be written if the length of
.Fa ws2
exceeds
.Fa n .
.Lp
If
.Fa ws1
and
.Fa ws2
overlap, the result is undefined.
.Lp
The
.Fn wcpcpy
and
.Fn wcpncpy
functions are the wide-character equivalents of
.Fn stpcpy
and
.Fn stpncpy ,
respectively.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn wcpcpy
and
.Fn wcpncpy
functions return a pointer to the last wide-character written.  In the
case of
.Fn wcpncpy
this will always be equal to
.Po Fa ws1 Li + Fa n Li \(mi 1 Pc .
.Sh ERRORS
None.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Standard .
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stpcpy 3C ,
.Xr stpncpy 3C ,
.Xr wcscpy 3C ,
.Xr wcsncpy 3C ,
.Xr wchar.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr standards 5
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Fn wcpcpy
and
.Fn wcpncpy
functions were introduced in
.St -p1003.1-2008 .
