.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd January 5, 2025
.Dt WCSLCPY 3C
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm wcslcpy
.Nd copy a wide-character string
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In wchar.h
.Ft size_t
.Fo wcslcpy
.Fa "wchar_t *restrict dst"
.Fa "wchar_t *restrict src"
.Fa "size_t dstlen"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn wcslcpy
function is the wide-character version of
.Xr strlcpy 3C .
It copies wide characters from
.Fa src
to
.Fa dst ,
while ensuring that
.Fa dst
is always properly terminated with the null wide-character
.Pq L'\e0' .
.Pp
Characters from
.Fa src
are copied until either the null wide-character is found in
.Fa src
or
.Fa dstlen
- 1 wide characters have been copied, whichever comes first.
In the latter case, the copy of
.Fa src
in
.Fa dst
will be truncated.
If
.Fa dstlen
is zero, then no characters are copied.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn wcslcpy
function always returns the total number of wide characters in
.Fa src ,
excluding the terminating null wide-character.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Checking for overflow
.Pp
The following example shows how one would check if a copy using the
.Fn wcslcpy
function would have overflowed a fixed size buffer.
Note, the use of
.Sq >=
down below is required because the
.Fn wcslcpy
function always ensures that the buffer has a terminating null wide-character.
.Bd -literal -offset 2
#include <wchar.h>
#include <stdio.h>

#define	BUFLEN	32
wchar_t buf[BUFLEN];

\&...
	if (wcslcpy(buf, src, BUFLEN) >= BUFLEN) {
		(void) fprintf(stderr, "overflow detected!");
		goto out;
	}
\&...
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Committed
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr strlcpy 3C ,
.Xr wcslcat 3C
