'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited. All Rights Reserved.  Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WCSRTOMBS 3C "Jun 25, 2014"
.SH NAME
wcsrtombs, wcsrtombs_l \- convert a wide-character string to a character string
(restartable)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBwcsrtombs\fR(\fBchar *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst wchar_t **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR,
     \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBsize_t\fR \fBwcsrtombs_l\fR(\fBchar *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR,
     \fBconst wchar_t **restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlen\fR,
     \fBmbstate_t *restrict\fR \fIps\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBwcsrtombs()\fR function converts a sequence of wide-characters from the
array indirectly pointed to by \fIsrc\fR into a sequence of corresponding
characters, beginning in the conversion state described by the object pointed
to by \fIps\fR. If \fIdst\fR is not a null pointer, the converted characters
are then stored into the array pointed to by \fIdst\fR. Conversion continues up
to and including a terminating null  wide-character, which is also stored.
Conversion stops earlier in the following cases:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When a code is reached that does not correspond to a valid character.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
When the next character would exceed the limit of \fIlen\fR total bytes to be
stored in the array pointed to by \fIdst\fR (and \fIdst\fR is not a null
pointer).
.RE
.LP
Each conversion takes place as if by a call to the \fBwcrtomb()\fR function.
.LP
If \fIdst\fR is not a null pointer, the pointer object pointed to by \fIsrc\fR
is assigned either a null pointer (if conversion stopped due to reaching a
terminating null wide-character) or the address just  past the last
wide-character converted (if any). If conversion stopped due to reaching a
terminating null wide-character, the resulting state described is the initial
conversion state.
.LP
If \fIps\fR is a null pointer, the \fBwcsrtombs()\fR function uses its own
internal \fBmbstate_t\fR object, which is initialized at program startup to the
initial conversion state.  Otherwise, the  \fBmbstate_t\fR object pointed to by
\fIps\fR is used to completely describe the current conversion state of the
associated character sequence. The system will behave as if no function defined
in the Reference Manual calls any of these functions.
.LP
The behavior of \fBwcsrtombs()\fR is affected by the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category of
the current locale.  See \fBenviron\fR(5).
.LP
The function \fBwcsrtombs_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBwcsrtombs\fR, except
instead of operating in the current locale, it operates in the locale
specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If conversion stops because a code is reached that does not correspond to a
valid character, an encoding error occurs.  In this case, these
functions store the value of the macro \fBEILSEQ\fR in \fBerrno\fR and return
\fB(size_t)\(mi1\fR; the conversion state is undefined.  Otherwise, they return
the number of bytes in the resulting character sequence, not including the
terminating null (if any).
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBwcsrtombs()\fR and \fBwcsrtombs_l()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fIps\fR argument points to an object that contains an invalid conversion
state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEILSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A wide-character code does not correspond to a valid character.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	See below.
.TE

.LP
The \fBwcsrtombs()\fR function is Standard.  The \fBwcsrtombs_l()\fR
function is Uncommitted.
.LP
If \fIps\fR is a null pointer, these functions should be considered Unsafe
for use in multithreaded applications.  Otherwise, they are MT-Safe.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmbsinit\fR(3C), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBwcrtomb\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBenviron\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
