.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH WCSTOUL 3C "Nov 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
wcstoul, wcstoull \- convert wide-character string to unsigned long
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBunsigned long\fR  \fBwcstoul\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fInptr\fR,
     \fBwchar_t **restrict\fR \fIendptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBunsigned long long\fR \fBwcstoull\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fInptr\fR,
     \fBwchar_t **restrict\fR \fIendptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcstoul()\fR and \fBwcstoull()\fR functions convert the initial portion
of the wide-character string pointed to by \fInptr\fR to \fBunsigned long\fR
and \fBunsigned long long\fR representation, respectively. First they decompose
the input wide-character string  into three parts:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
An initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space wide-character codes (as
specified by the function \fBiswspace\fR(3C))
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
 Asubject sequence interpreted as an integer represented in some radix
determined by the value of \fIbase\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
a final wide-character string of one or more unrecognized wide-character
codes, including the terminating null wide-character code of the input wide
character string
.RE
.sp
.LP
They then attempt to convert the subject sequence to an unsigned integer and
return the result.
.sp
.LP
If the value of \fIbase\fR is 0, the expected form of the subject sequence is
that of a decimal constant, an octal constant, or a hexadecimal constant, any
of which may be preceded by a `+' or a `\(mi' sign. A decimal constant begins
with a non-zero digit, and consists of a sequence of decimal digits. An octal
constant consists of the prefix `0', optionally followed by a sequence of the
digits `0' to `7' only. A hexadecimal constant consists of the prefix `0x' or
`0X', followed by a sequence of the decimal digits and letters `a' (or `A') to
`f' (or `F'), with values 10 to 15, respectively.
.sp
.LP
If the value of \fIbase\fR is between 2 and 36, the expected form of the
subject sequence is a sequence of letters and digits representing an integer
with the radix specified by  \fIbase\fR, optionally preceded by a `+' or a
`\(mi' sign, but not including an integer suffix. The letters from `a' (or `A')
to `z' (or `Z') inclusive are ascribed the values 10 to 35; only letters whose
ascribed values are less than that of \fIbase\fR are permitted. If the value of
\fIbase\fR is 16, the wide-character codes `0x' or `0X' may optionally precede
the sequence of letters and digits, following the sign, if present.
.sp
.LP
The subject sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of the input
wide-character string, starting with the first wide-character code that is not
a white space and is of the expected form. The subject sequence contains no
wide-character codes if the input wide-character string is empty or consists
entirely of white-space wide-character codes, or if the first wide-character
code that is not a white space  is other than a sign or a permissible letter or
digit.
.sp
.LP
If the subject sequence has the expected form and the value of \fIbase\fR is 0,
the sequence of wide-character codes starting with the first digit is
interpreted as an integer constant. If the subject sequence has the expected
form and the value of \fIbase\fR is between 2 and 36, it is used as the base
for conversion, ascribing to each letter its value as given above. If the
subject sequence begins with a minus sign, the value resulting from the
conversion is negated. A pointer to the final wide character string is  stored
in the object pointed to by \fIendptr\fR, provided that  \fIendptr\fR is not a
null pointer.
.sp
.LP
If the subject sequence is empty or does not have the expected form, no
conversion is performed; the value of \fInptr\fR is stored in the object
pointed to by \fIendptr\fR, provided that  \fIendptr\fR is not a null pointer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcstoul()\fR function does not change the setting of \fBerrno\fR if
successful.
.sp
.LP
Since 0, {\fBULONG_MAX\fR}, and {\fBULLONG_MAX\fR} are returned on error and 0
is also a valid return on success, an application wanting to check for error
situations should set \fBerrno\fR to 0, then call \fBwcstoul()\fR or
\fBwcstoull()\fR, then check  \fBerrno\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcstoul()\fR and \fBwcstoull()\fR functions do not change the setting of
\fBerrno\fR if successful.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBwcstoul()\fR and \fBwcstoull()\fR return the
converted value, if any. If no conversion could be performed, \fB0\fR is
returned and \fBerrno\fR may be set to indicate the error. If the correct value
is outside the range of representable values, {\fBULONG_MAX\fR} or
{\fBULLONG_MAX\fR}, respectively, is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to
\fBERANGE\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcstoul()\fR and \fBwcstoull()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIbase\fR is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value to be returned is not representable.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBwcstoul()\fR and \fBwcstoull()\fR functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
No conversion could be performed.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Unlike \fBwcstod\fR(3C) and \fBwcstol\fR(3C), \fBwcstoul()\fR and
\fBwcstoull()\fR must always return a non-negative number; using the return
value of \fBwcstoul()\fR for out-of-range numbers with \fBwcstoul()\fR or
\fBwcstoull()\fR could cause more severe problems than just loss of precision
if those numbers can ever be negative.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBisspace\fR(3C), \fBiswalpha\fR(3C), \fBscanf\fR(3C), \fBwcstod\fR(3C),
\fBwcstol\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
