.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH WCSTOL 3C "Nov 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
wcstol, wcstoll, wstol, watol, watoll, watoi \- convert wide character string
to long integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBwcstol\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fInptr\fR, \fBwchar_t **restrict\fR \fIendptr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBwcstoll\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *restrict\fR \fInptr\fR, \fBwchar_t **restrict\fR \fIendptr\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <widec.h>

\fBlong\fR \fBwstol\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *\fR\fInptr\fR, \fBwchar_t **\fR\fIendptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong\fR \fBwatol\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fInptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBwatoll\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fInptr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBwatoi\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fInptr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcstol()\fR and \fBwcstoll()\fR functions convert the initial portion of
the wide character string pointed to by \fInptr\fR to \fBlong\fR and \fBlong
long\fR representation, respectively. They first decompose the input string
into three parts:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
an initial, possibly empty, sequence of white-space wide-character codes (as
specified by \fBiswspace\fR(3C))
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
a subject sequence interpreted as an integer represented in some radix
determined by the value of \fIbase\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
a final wide character string of one or more unrecognised wide character
codes, including the terminating null wide-character code of the input wide
character string
.RE
.sp
.LP
They then attempt to convert the subject sequence to an integer, and return the
result.
.sp
.LP
If the value of \fIbase\fR is \fB0\fR, the expected form of the subject
sequence is that of a decimal constant, octal constant or hexadecimal constant,
any of which may be preceded by a `+' or `\(mi' sign. A decimal constant begins
with a non-zero digit, and consists of a sequence of decimal digits. An octal
constant consists of the prefix `0' optionally followed by a sequence of the
digits `0' to `7' only. A hexadecimal constant consists of the prefix `0x' or
`0X' followed by a sequence of the decimal digits and letters `a' (or `A') to
`f' (or `F') with values 10 to 15 respectively.
.sp
.LP
If the value of \fIbase\fR is between \fB2\fR and \fB36\fR, the expected form
of the subject sequence is a sequence of letters and digits representing an
integer with the radix specified by  \fIbase\fR, optionally preceded by a `+'
or `\(mi' sign, but not including an integer suffix. The letters from `a' (or
`A') to `z' (or `Z') inclusive  are ascribed the values 10 to 35; only letters
whose ascribed values are less than that of \fIbase\fR are permitted. If the
value of \fIbase\fR is \fB16\fR, the wide-character code representations of
`0x' or `0X' may optionally precede the sequence of letters and digits,
following the sign if present.
.sp
.LP
The subject sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of the input
wide character string, starting with the first non-white-space wide-character
code, that is of the expected form. The subject sequence contains no
wide-character codes if the input wide character string is empty or consists
entirely of white-space wide-character code, or if the first non-white-space
wide-character code is other than a sign or a permissible letter or digit.
.sp
.LP
If the subject sequence has the expected form and the value of \fIbase\fR is
\fB0\fR, the sequence of wide-character codes starting with the first digit is
interpreted as an integer constant. If the subject sequence has the expected
form and the value of \fIbase\fR is between \fB2\fR and \fB36\fR, it is used as
the base for conversion, ascribing to each letter its value as given above. If
the subject sequence begins with a minus sign (-), the value resulting from the
conversion is negated. A pointer to the final wide character string is stored
in the object pointed to by \fIendptr\fR, provided that  \fIendptr\fR is not a
null pointer.
.sp
.LP
If the subject sequence is empty or does not have the expected form, no
conversion is performed; the value of \fInptr\fR is stored in the object
pointed to by \fIendptr\fR, provided that  \fIendptr\fR is not a null pointer.
.sp
.LP
These functions do not change the setting of \fBerrno\fR if successful.
.sp
.LP
Since 0, {\fBLONG_MIN\fR} or {\fBLLONG_MIN\fR}, and {\fBLONG_MAX\fR} or
{\fBLLONG_MAX\fR} are returned on error and are also valid returns on success,
an application wanting to check for error situations should set \fBerrno\fR to
0, call one of these functions, then check \fBerrno\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwstol()\fR function is equivalent to \fBwcstol()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwatol()\fR function is equivalent to \fBwstol(\fR\fIstr\fR\fB,(wchar_t
**)NULL, 10)\fR\fI\&.\fR
.sp
.LP
The \fBwatoll()\fR function is the long-long (double long) version of
\fBwatol()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBwatoi()\fR function is equivalent to \fB(int)watol(\|)\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the converted value, if any.
If no conversion could be performed, 0 is returned and \fBerrno\fR may be set
to indicate the error. If the correct value is outside the range of
representable values, {\fBLONG_MIN\fR}, {\fBLONG_MAX\fR}, {\fBLLONG_MIN\fR}, or
{\fBLLONG_MAX\fR} is returned (according to the sign of the value), and
\fBerrno\fR is set to \fBERANGE\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value of \fIbase\fR is not supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBERANGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The value to be returned is not representable.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These functions may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
No conversion could be performed.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	\fBwcstol()\fR and \fBwcstoll()\fR are Standard.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiswalpha\fR(3C), \fBiswspace\fR(3C), \fBscanf\fR(3C), \fBwcstod\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Truncation from \fBlong long\fR to \fBlong\fR can take place upon assignment or
by an explicit cast.
