'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WCSWIDTH 3C "Jul 11, 2014"
.SH NAME
wcswidth, wcswidth_l \- number of column positions of a wide-character string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwcswidth\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *\fR\fIpwcs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwcswidth_l\fR(\fBconst wchar_t *\fR\fIpwcs\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIn\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwcswidth()\fR function determines the number of column positions
required for \fIn\fR wide-character codes (or fewer than \fIn\fR wide-character
codes if a null wide-character code is encountered before \fIn\fR
wide-character codes are exhausted) in the string pointed to by \fIpwcs\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
The \fBwcswidth()\fR function either returns \fB0\fR (if \fIpwcs\fR points to a
null wide-character code), or returns the number of column positions to be
occupied by the wide-character string pointed to by \fIpwcs\fR, or returns
\fB\(mi1\fR (if any of the first \fIn\fR wide-character codes in the
wide-character string pointed to by \fIpwcs\fR is not a printing wide-character
code).
.LP
The function \fBwcwidth_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBwcwidth()\fR, except
instead of operating in the current environemtn, it operates in the environment
specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBwcwidth\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
