'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"  Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WCTOMB 3C "Jun 25, 2014"
.SH NAME
wctomb, wctomb_l \- convert a wide-character code to a character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwctomb\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBwchar_t\fR \fIwchar\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <xlocale.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwctomb_l\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBwchar_t\fR \fIwchar\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBwctomb()\fR function determines the number of bytes needed to represent
the character corresponding to the wide-character code whose value is
\fIwchar\fR. It stores the character representation (possibly multiple bytes)
in the array object pointed to by \fIs\fR (if \fIs\fR is not a null pointer).
At most \fBMB_CUR_MAX\fR bytes are stored.
.LP
A call with \fIs\fR as a null pointer causes this function to return \fB0\fR.
The behavior of this function is affected by the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category of the
current locale.
.LP
The function \fBwctomb_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBwctomb()\fR, except
instead of operating in the current locale, it operates in the locale
specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
If \fIs\fR is a null pointer, \fBwctomb()\fR returns \fB0\fR value. If \fIs\fR
is not a null pointer, \fBwctomb()\fR returns \fB\(mi1\fR if the value of
\fIwchar\fR does not correspond to a valid character, or returns the number of
bytes that constitute the character corresponding to the value of \fIwchar\fR.
.LP
In no case will the value returned be greater than the value of the
\fBMB_CUR_MAX\fR macro.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
No errors are defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.LP
The \fBwctomb()\fR function is Standard.  The \fBwctomb_l()\fR function
is Uncommitted.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBmblen\fR(3C), \fBmbstowcs\fR(3C), \fBmbtowc\fR(3C),
\fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBwcstombs\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
