.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\"
.TH WCTYPE 3C "Jun 25, 2014"
.SH NAME
wctype, wctype_l \- define character class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>

\fBwctype_t\fR \fBwctype\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIcharclass\fR);
.fi
.LP
.nf
\fBwctype_t\fR \fBwctype_l\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIcharclass\fR, \fBlocale_t\fR \fIloc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBwctype()\fR function is defined for valid character class names as
defined in the current locale. The \fIcharclass\fR is a string identifying a
generic character class for which codeset-specific type information is
required. The following character class names are defined in all locales:
.IP
.TS
l l l
l l l .
"alnum"	"alpha"	"blank"
"cntrl"	"digit"	"graph"
"lower"	"print"	"punct"
"space"	"upper"	"xdigit"
.TE

.LP
Additional character class names defined in the locale definition file
(category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR) can also be specified.
.LP
The function returns a value of type \fBwctype_t\fR, which can be used as the
second argument to subsequent calls of \fBiswctype\fR(3C). The \fBwctype()\fR
function determines values of \fBwctype_t\fR according to the rules of the coded
character set defined by character type information in the current locale
(category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR). The values returned by \fBwctype()\fR are valid
only in the locale, or locales with the same \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category.
.LP
The function \fBwctype_l()\fR behaves identically to \fBwctype()\fR, except
instead of operating in the current locale, it operates in the locale
specified by \fIloc\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
These functions return \fB0\fR if the given character class name
is not valid for the locale (category \fBLC_CTYPE\fR); otherwise it
returns an object of type \fBwctype_t\fR that can be used in calls to
\fBiswctype\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBiswctype\fR(3C), \fBnewlocale\fR(3C), \fBsetlocale\fR(3C),
\fBuselocale\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
