'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WSPRINTF 3C "Dec 29, 1996"
.SH NAME
wsprintf \- formatted output conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <widec.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwsprintf\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIformat\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIarg\fR */ ... ););
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwsprintf()\fR function outputs a Process Code string ending with a
Process Code (\fBwchar_t\fR) null character.  It is the user's responsibility
to allocate enough space for this \fBwchar_t\fR string.
.sp
.LP
This returns the number of Process Code characters (excluding the null
terminator) that have been written. The conversion specifications and behavior
of \fBwsprintf()\fR are the same as the regular \fBsprintf\fR(3C) function
except that the result is a Process Code string for \fBwsprintf(\|),\fR and on
Extended Unix Code (EUC) character string for \fBsprintf()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBwsprintf()\fR returns the number of characters
printed. Otherwise, a negative value is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBwsscanf\fR(3C), \fBprintf\fR(3C), \fBscanf\fR(3C), \fBsprintf\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
