'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WSSCANF 3C "Dec 29, 1996"
.SH NAME
wsscanf \- formatted input conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include<stdio.h>
#include <widec.h>

\fBint\fR \fBwsscanf\fR(\fBwchar_t *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIformat\fR, \fB/*\fR \fIpointer\fR */ ... );
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwsscanf()\fR function reads Process Code characters from the Process
Code string \fIs\fR, interprets them according to the \fIformat\fR, and stores
the results in its arguments.  It expects, as arguments, a control string
\fIformat\fR, and a set of \fIpointer\fR arguments indicating where the
converted input should be stored. The results are undefined if there are
insufficient \fIarg\fRs for the format.  If the format is exhausted while
\fIarg\fRs remain, the excess \fIarg\fRs are simply ignored.
.sp
.LP
The conversion specifications and behavior of \fBwsscanf()\fR are the same as
the regular \fBsscanf\fR(3C) function except that the source is a Process Code
string for \fBwsscanf()\fR and on Extended Unix Code (EUC) character string for
\fBsscanf\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBwsscanf()\fR returns the number of characters
matched. Otherwise, it returns a negative value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBwsprintf\fR(3C), \fBprintf\fR(3C), \fBscanf\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
