'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFGETLURESOURCE 3STMF "May 8, 2009"
.SH NAME
stmfGetLuResource \- get a logical unit resource for a currently registered
logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIluGuid\fR, \fBluResource *\fR\fIhdl\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIluGuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The guid of logical unit to retrieve.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhdl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The logical unit resource to create.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetLuResource()\fR function retrieves a logical unit resource
\fIhdl\fR for a given logical unit. The \fIluGuid\fR argument must represent a
currently registered stmf logical unit. This retrieved resource is a set of
device-specific properties for a logical unit device. This allocates an
\fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR of device type matching \fIluGuid\fR.  The
\fBstmfFreeLuResource\fR(3STMF) function should be used when \fIhdl\fR is no
longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The guid does not exist.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfFreeLuResource\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
