'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH stmfGetHostGroupList 3STMF "9 Jun 2008" "SunOS 5.11" "SCSI Target Mode Framework Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stmfGetHostGroupList \- retrieve the list of host groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetInitiatorGroupList\fR(\fBstmfGroupList **\fR\fIhostGroupList\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIhostGroupList\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
.rt  
A pointer to a pointer to an \fBstmfGroupList\fR structure. On successful
return, this will contain a list of host groups.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetInitiatorGroupList()\fR function retrieves the list of host
groups. The caller should call \fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF) when this list is no
longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The library was unable to allocate sufficient memory for \fIhostGroupList\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
.rt  
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelSafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF), \fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
