'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFSETPROVIDERDATAPROT 3STMF "Oct 7, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfSetProviderDataProt \- retrieve data for the specified provider
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
 #include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfSetProviderDataProt\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIproviderName\fR, \fBnvlist_t **\fR\fInvl\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIproviderType\fR, \fBuint64_t *\fR\fItoken\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIproviderName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The name of the provider for which data is being set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInvl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A pointer to a pointer to an \fBnvlist_t\fR containing the nvlist to be set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIproviderType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The value for this parameter must be either \fBSTMF_LU_PROVIDER_TYPE\fR or
\fBSTMF_PORT_PROVIDER_TYPE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItoken\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A pointer to a \fBuint64_t\fR that contains the value returned from a
successful call to \fBstmfGetProviderDataProt\fR(3STMF). If this argument is
\fINULL\fR, the token is ignored. Otherwise, the token will be verified against
the current data. If the token represents stale data, the call fails.
.sp
On success, \fItoken\fR will contain the new token for the data being set and
can be used in subsequent calls to \fBstmfSetProviderData\fR(3STMF). On failure
the contents are undefined.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfSetProviderDataProt()\fR function sets the data for the specified
provider.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_PROV_DATA_STALE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The token value represents stale data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBnvlist_free\fR(3NVPAIR),
\fBstmfGetProviderDataProt\fR(3STMF), \fBstmfSetProviderData\fR(3STMF),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
