'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFCREATELURESOURCE 3STMF "May 8, 2009"
.SH NAME
stmfCreateLuResource \- create new logical unit resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(\fBuint16_t\fR \fIdType\fR, \fBluResource *\fR\fIhdl\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The device type of the logical unit resource. Only \fBSTMF_DISK\fR is currently
supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhdl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The logical unit resource to be created.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfCreateLuResource()\fR function creates a resource for setting
properties of a logical unit for purposes of creating a logical unit in STMF.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Either type is unrecognized or \fIhdl\fR was \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
