'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFFREELURESOURCE 3STMF "May 8, 2009"
.SH NAME
stmfFreeLuResource \- free an allocated logical unit resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfFreeLuResource\fR(\fBluResource\fR \fIhdl\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhdl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
A logical unit resource previously allocated in a call to
\fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(3STMF) or \fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(3STMF).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfFreeLuResource()\fR function frees a logical unit resource that was
previously allocated in a call to \fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(3STMF) or
\fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(3STMF).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_INVALID_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The \fIhdl\fR argument is not a valid logical unit resource.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfCreateLuResource\fR(3STMF),
\fBstmfGetLuResource\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
