'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFDELETELU 3STMF "May 8, 2009"
.SH NAME
stmfDeleteLu \- delete a logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lstmf [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfDeleteLu\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIluGuid\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIluGuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
a pointer to an \fBstmfGuid\fR structure containing the guid of the logical
unit to delete
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfDeleteLu()\fR function deletes the logical unit from the system. Any
view entries that may exist for this logical unit will be retained in the
system and must be removed using \fBstmfRemoveViewEntry\fR(3STMF) if so
desired.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The guid does not exist.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfRemoveViewEntry\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
