'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFOFFLINETARGET 3STMF "Jun 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfOfflineTarget \- take offline a target port that is currently in the online
state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfOfflineTarget\fR(\fBstmfDevid *\fR\fItarget\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItarget\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The identifier of the target port to offline.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfOfflineTarget()\fR function takes offline a target port that is
currently in the online state. Once in the offline state, the target port will
no longer be capable of servicing requests in the system.
.sp
.LP
This API call can be used to take offline a target port device for servicing.
Once the target port is offline, it will no longer be available to any entities
outside of the SCSI Target Mode Framework. Any initiator ports that currently
have sessions established by the offlined target port will be logged out.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The device is currently busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
