'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFGETTARGETGROUPMEMBERS 3STMF "Jun 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfGetTargetGroupMembers \- retrieve the properties of the specified target
port group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetTargetGroupMembers\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fR\fItargetGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfGroupProperties **\fR\fIgroupProperties\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItargetGroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
The name of the target port group whose member list is being retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIgroupProperties\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
A pointer to a pointer to an \fBstmfGroupProperties\fR structure. On successful
return, this will contain the properties for the specified
\fItargetGroupName\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetTargetGroupMembers()\fR function retrieves the properties of the
specified target port group. The caller should call \fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF)
when this list is no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The specified \fItargetGroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
