'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFADDTOHOSTGROUP 3STMF "Jun 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfAddToHostGroup \- add an initiator port to an existing host group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfAddToHostGroup\fR(\fBstmfGroupName *\fR\fIhostGroupName\fR,
     \fBstmfDevid\fR \fIinitiatorName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhostGroupName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The name of the host group to which the specified initiatorName is added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinitiatorName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The device identifier of the initiator port to add to the specified host group.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfAddToHostGroup()\fR function adds an initiator port to an existing
host group.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_EXISTS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The specified \fIinitiatorName\fR already exists in this \fIhostGroupName\fR or
in another host group in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_GROUP_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The specified \fIhostGroupName\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
