'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFADDVIEWENTRY 3STMF "Jun 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfAddViewEntry \- add a view entry for a given logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfAddViewEntry\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIlogicalUnit\fR,
     \fBstmfViewEntry *\fR\fIviewEntry\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlogicalUnit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The identifier of the logical unit to which this view entry is being added.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIviewEntry\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The view entry to add to the specified logical unit identifier.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfAddViewEntry()\fR function adds a view entry for a given logical
unit.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_LUN_IN_USE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The specified logical unit number is already in use for this logical unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The ID specified for \fIlogicalUnit\fR was not found in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_VE_CONFLICT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Adding this view entry is in conflict with one or more existing view entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
If \fIluNbrValid\fR in the \fBstmfViewEntry\fR structure is set to
\fBB_FALSE\fR, the framework will assign a logical unit number for this view
entry. \fIveIndexValid\fR must be set to \fBB_FALSE\fR when adding a view
entry. On successful return, \fIveIndexValid\fR will be set to \fBB_TRUE\fR and
\fIveIndex\fR will contain the view entry index assigned to this view entry by
the framework.
