'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFGETVIEWENTRYLIST 3STMF "Jun 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfGetViewEntryList \- retrieve the list of view entries for a specified
logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetViewEntryList\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIlogicalUnit\fR,
     \fBstmfViewEntryList **\fR\fIviewEntryList\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlogicalUnit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The identifier of the logical unit for which to retrieve the list of view
entries.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIviewEntryList\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A pointer to a pointer to an \fBstmfViewEntryList\fR structure. On successful
return, this will contain a list of view entries for \fIlogicalUnit\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetViewEntryList()\fR function retrieves the list of view entries
for a specified logical unit. The caller should call
\fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF) when this list is no longer needed.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The library was unable to allocate sufficient memory for \fIviewEntryList\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBstmfFreeMemory\fR(3STMF), \fBattributes\fR(5)
