'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH STMFGETLOGICALUNITPROPERTIES 3STMF "Jun 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
stmfGetLogicalUnitProperties \- retrieve the properties of the specified
logical unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lstmf\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libstmf.h>

\fBint\fR \fBstmfGetLogicalUnitProperties\fR(\fBstmfGuid *\fR\fIlogicalUnit\fR,
     \fBstmfLogicalUnitProperties *\fR\fIlogicalUnitProps\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlogicalUnit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The identifier of the logical unit whose properties are being retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlogicalUnitProps\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
A pointer to an \fBstmfLogicalUnitProperties\fR structure. On successful
return, this will contain the properties for the specified
\fIlogicalUnitOid\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBstmfGetLogicalUnitProperties()\fR function retrieves the properties of
the specified logical unit.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_ERROR_LOGICAL_UNIT_NOT_REGISTERED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fIlogicalUnit\fR is not a valid registered logical unit in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSTMF_STATUS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibstmf\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
