'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TNFCTL_REGISTER_FUNCS 3TNF "Mar 1, 2004"
.SH NAME
tnfctl_register_funcs \- register callbacks for probe creation and destruction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-ltnfctl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <tnf/tnfctl.h>

\fBtnfctl_errcode_t\fR \fBtnfctl_register_funcs\fR(\fBtnfctl_handle_t *\fR\fIhndl\fR, \fBvoid * (*\fR\fIcreate_func\fR)
     (tnfctl_handle_t *, tnfctl_probe_t *), \fBvoid (*\fR\fIdestroy_func\fR)(void *));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The function \fBtnfctl_register_funcs()\fR is used to store client-specific
data on a per-probe basis.  It registers a creator and a destructor function
with  \fIhndl\fR, either of which can be  \fBNULL.\fR The creator function is
called for every probe that currently exists in \fIhndl.\fR Every time a new
probe is discovered, that is brought in by \fBdlopen\fR(3C), \fIcreate_func\fR
is called.
.sp
.LP
The return value of the creator function is  stored as part of the probe state
and can be retrieved by \fBtnfctl_probe_state_get\fR(3TNF) in the member field
\fIclient_registered_data\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fIdestroy_func\fR is called for every probe handle that is freed.  This does
not necessarily happen at the time \fBdlclose\fR(3C) frees the shared object.
The probe handles are freed only when \fIhndl\fR is closed by
\fBtnfctl_close\fR(3TNF). If \fBtnfctl_register_funcs()\fR is called a second
time for the same \fIhndl,\fR then the previously registered destructor
function is called first for  all of the probes.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBtnfctl_register_funcs()\fR returns \fBTNFCTL_ERR_NONE\fR upon success.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNFCTL_ERR_INTERNAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
An internal error occurred.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprex\fR(1), \fBTNF_PROBE\fR(3TNF), \fBdlclose\fR(3C), \fBdlopen\fR(3C),
\fBlibtnfctl\fR(3TNF), \fBtnfctl_close\fR(3TNF),
\fBtnfctl_probe_state_get\fR(3TNF), \fBtracing\fR(3TNF),
\fBtnf_kernel_probes\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
