.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2022 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd September 17, 2022
.Dt GPIOADM 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gpioadm
.Nd gpio and dpio administration
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm controller
.Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm gpio
.Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl 1
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm get
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Ar controller/gpio
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm set
.Ar controller/gpio
.Ar attr=value
.Op Ar attr=value Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm dpio
.Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm dpio
.Cm define
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl w
.Op Fl K
.Ar controller/gpio
.Ar name
.Nm
.Cm dpio
.Cm undefine
.Ar controller/gpio
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is used to enumerate and manipulate the general purpose and
dedicated purpose I/Os
.Pq GPIO and DPIO
and their controllers that are present in the system.
For more background on the GPIO and DPIO subsystem, please see
.Xr gpio 7 .
.Pp
There are three top-level objects in
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It GPIOs
General Purpose I/Os are software controllable pins that exist on
various hardware devices.
GPIOs are identified by a human-readable name and a controller-specific
numeric ID
.Po
which has no relation to the hardware or datasheet's numbering of GPIOs,
these are used by the kernel to identify GPIOs
.Pc .
All
.Nm
operations allow a GPIO to be named either by its human-readable name
or its controller-specific ID.
.Nm
will always attempt to resolve a string as a GPIO's name first and will
only attempt to parse it as a GPIO's ID if there is no GPIO with that
name.
.Pp
GPIOs themselves contain a series of attributes which vary based on the
controller.
An attribute itself may be read-only or read-write and controls one
aspect of the GPIO.
For example, there are attributes for things such as the name of the
device, which pin it corresponds to on the package, what the current
input and output values are, whether there are pull-up or pull-down
resistors enabled, and much more.
.Pp
GPIOs support the discovery and manipulation of their attributes through
the
.Cm attr
.Cm get
and
.Cm attr
.Cm set
subcommands.
Manipulating attributes can
.Sy potentially damage
your system.
Documentation of specific attributes, may potentially be found in
provider-specific driver manual pages in section 4D.
.It Controllers
These are hardware devices that provide access to GPIOs.
.Nm
provides the ability to list and get basic information about these
controllers.
Controllers are not manipulated directly but are indirectly used when
getting information about and manipulating GPIOs and DPIOs.
.It DPIOs
Dedicated Purpose I/Os are devices which wrap up and constrain a GPIO
while allowing one to indicate that there are particular semantics.
Unlike a GPIO which has a full series of attributes, a DPIO provides
generic access to reading the current input value and setting the output
value, while freezing all other attributes of the underlying GPIO.
For more background on DPIOs, how they work, and why the exist, please
see
.Xr dpio 7 .
.Pp
Specifically,
.Nm
supports the creation of DPIOs from a GPIO using the
.Cm dpio
.Cm define
subcommand and release a GPIO from being a DPIO through the
.Cm dpio
.Cm undefine
subcommand.
.El
.Pp
All listing operations leverage the standard illumos output format
library
.Po
.Xr ofmt 3OFMT
.Pc
allowing the selection of specific output fields, the omission of the
header
.Pq Fl H ,
and a parsable mode intended for programmatic consumption
.Pq Fl p .
When requesting parsable output, the colon
.Po
.Do
:
.Dc
.Pc
character is used as a delimiter between fields and any delimiters that
would appear in an output field will be escaped with a backslash
character
.Po
.Do
\e
.Dc
.Pc .
.Pp
Getting information about GPIOs, DPIOs, and controllers currently
requires that a process have the
.Brq Dv PRIV_SYS_DEVICES
privilege.
.Ss Persistence
Currently there is no persistence across reboots of any changes that are
made to GPIO attributes.
Similarly, any DPIOs that are created and manipulated only last until
the next reboot of the system.
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
The following commands are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm controller
.Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Xc
List all of the GPIO controllers in the system and basic information
about them.
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width CONTROLLER
.It Sy CONTROLLER
This is the name of the GPIO controller in the system.
.It Sy NGPIOS
The number of GPIOs that the controller supports.
This value will not change unless the controller driver changes somehow.
.It Sy NDPIOS
The number of DPIOs that the controller currently actively has.
This value will change over time depending on the creation and removal
of DPIOs.
.It Sy PROVIDER
The
.Pa /devices
path to the kernel provider for this GPIO controller.
.It Sy PATH
The
.Pa /devices
path to the GPIO controller minor node.
.El
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl H
Omit the column header when printing output.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-delineated list of fields to output, selected from the ones
above.
.It Fl p
Displays the output in a machine-parsable format.
When requesting parsable output, the
.Fl o
option is required to specifically control which fields are included.
.El
.Pp
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ar filter
One or more filters may be specified that are used to constrain the list
of GPIO controllers that are printed.
Each
.Ar filter
is the name of a GPIO controller that matches the aforementioned
.Sy CONTROLLER
field.
.Pp
If any filter is specified and does not match, then that is treated as
an error.
.Pp
Because these are filters, they do not control the order that items are
printed out, only what is printed out.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm gpio
.Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl 1
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Xc
List all of the GPIOs in the system across all controllers.
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width CONTROLLER
.It Sy CONTROLLER
This is the name of the GPIO controller in the system.
.It Sy GPIO
This is the name of the GPIO provided by its controller.
GPIO names are not unique in the system and are scoped to their
controller.
.It Sy ID
The numeric ID of the GPIO.
This is used as part of getting and setting attributes as well as when
defining and undefining DPIOs.
.El
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl 1
Exit non-zero if the list operation outputs more than one item.
This is generally used in conjunction with a specific
.Ar filter
that would include both a controller and a GPIO name.
.It Fl H
Omit the column header when printing output.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-delineated list of fields to output, selected from the ones
above.
.It Fl p
Displays the output in a machine-parsable format.
When requesting parsable output, the
.Fl o
option is required to specifically control which fields are included.
.El
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ar filter
One or more filters that are used to constrain the list of GPIOs that
are printed.
Each filter may combine a GPIO controller and a GPIO name.
There are three general forms:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ar controller
This filter matches all GPIOs that are present under the controller
named by
.Ar controller .
.It Ar */gpio
This filter matches all controllers, but only prints GPIOs with the
specified name
.Ar gpio .
.It Ar controller/gpio
This is the intersection of the prior two filters.
This filter will only print if both a GPIO's controller and its name
match the specified values.
.El
.Pp
Like with other filters, this does not control the order that matches
are printed in and
.Nm
will error if not all filters are used.
The filters can be combined with the
.Fl 1
option to guarantee that only a single GPIO is matched.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm get
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Ar controller/gpio
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Xc
The
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm get
subcommand is used to display all of the attributes of a single GPIO
that is specified by
.Ar controller/gpio .
The
.Ar controller
part of that is the name of the controller.
The
.Ar gpio
part is either the name or ID of the GPIO.
.Pp
For each of a single GPIO's attributes, the name of the attribute, its
current value, what permissions exist for its value, and then what
values are possible to st for it are displayed.
Filters can be used to limit which attributes are displayed.
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width POSSIBLE
.It Sy ATTR
This is the name of the attribute.
It is split into a provider name and then a specific attribute name as
all attributes are generally scoped to their provider.
.It Sy PERM
This indicates the current permissions for manipulating this attribute.
This is treated as a two character field with
.Sq r
standing for reading the value and
.Sq w
standing for writing the value.
.It Sy VALUE
This is the current value of the attribute.
It will generally be rendered as a human-readable string when
appropriate so that way the value can be understood and does not require
understanding the underlying provider's specific values.
.It Sy POSSIBLE
A list of all possible values that are supported for this field.
This allows one to know what they can possibly set for this attribute.
For some read-only attributes this field may not have a value.
.It Sy RAW
This provides the underlying provider's value for this attribute.
For string based attributes, this is the same as the
.Sy VALUE
field.
For other attributes, such as those which are uint32 values under the
hood, these are the hexadecimal form of the integer.
.El
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl H
Omit the column header when printing output.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-delineated list of fields to output, selected from the ones
above.
.It Fl p
Displays the output in a machine-parsable format.
When requesting parsable output, the
.Fl o
option is required to specifically control which fields are included.
.El
The following operands are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ar
.It Ar filter
One or more filters may be specified that are used to constrain the list
of GPIO attributes that are printed.
Each
.Ar filter
is the name of a GPIO attributes that matches the aforementioned
.Sy ATTR
field.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm set
.Ar controller/gpio
.Ar attr=value
.Op Ar attr=value Ns ...
.Xc
The
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm set
subcommand is used to set one or more attributes of the GPIO that is
named by
.Ar controller/gpio .
The
.Ar controller
part of that is the name of the controller.
The
.Ar gpio
part is either the name or ID of the GPIO.
.Pp
All attributes that are specified are given to the hardware to apply at
once which generally means that either all of them should be applied or
none of them will be.
This allows a change from one atomic state to another without worrying
about how to construct an attribute by attribute path from one state to
the next, which may not be safe.
.Pp
Attributes and values are separated with the equals character
.Po
.Do
=
.Dc
.Pc .
.Ar attr
should be the full name of an attribute.
.Ar value
is the value to set.
.Nm
will automatically convert the human-readable strings that describe
values into the appropriate underlying provider-specific form.
To see which values are valid, look at the
.Sy POSSIBLE
column when getting the attributes.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm dpio
.Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Xc
The
.Cm dpio
.Cm list
subcommand lists all the DPIOs that have been created from GPIOs in the
system.
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width CONTROLLER
.It Sy DPIO
This is the name of a DPIO.
DPIO names are unique in the system and a DPIO can be found in the
filesystem at
.Pa /dev/dpio/<name> .
.It Sy CAPS
This is a list of capabilities that a DPIO supports, which is a
combination of what the underlying provider supports and what a user
requested when creating the DPIO.
The following are the current capabilities, though this list may expand
in the future:
.Bl -tag -width write
.It read
Indicates that the DPIO supports the various
.Xr read 2
family of functions.
Reading a DPIO returns the current value the DPIO sees on its pin in the
form of a 4 byte
.Vt dpio_input_t .
See
.Xr dpio 7
for more information.
.It write
Indicates that the DPIO supports the various
.Xr write 2
family of functions.
Writing a DPIO changes the value that it is outputting on its pin.
Writes must always be a 4 byte
.Vt dpio_output_t
value.
See
.Xr dpio 7
for more information.
.It poll
This indicates that the DPIO can be polled for changes to its input
value via the
.Dv POLLIN
event with functions such as
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr port_create 3C ,
and others.
In addition, the timestamp of when the last change was detected can be
retrieved via a device-specific
.Xr ioctl 2 .
This capability will not show up if the read capability is not present.
See
.Xr dpio 7
for more information.
.El
.It Sy FLAGS
This is a series of different flags that describe different aspects of
the DPIOs behavior.
The flags are organized and printed a series of letters where a
.Sq -
character denotes that a flag is not set and a letter indicates that a
flag is set.
The currently defined flags are:
.Bl -tag -width K
.It K
Indicates that the DPIO may only be used by the kernel in a layered
fashion
.Po
e.g. it must be opened by
.Xr ldi_open_by_name 9F
or a similar LDI call
.Pc .
.Pp
Users of this field should not assume that the number of flags is fixed.
When additional flag are added, they will be appended to the current
set, ensuring that the order does not change.
The appearance of additional characters in the string is what allows
callers to know that a new flag is present and gives software and humans
the ability to distinguish changes.
.El
.It Sy CONTROLLER
This is the name of the GPIO controller that the DPIO is leveraging.
When combined with the
.Sy GPIONUM
field, this uniquely identifies the GPIO that powers the DPIO.
This name is the same as would show up in the
.Cm controller
.Cm list
subcommand.
.It Sy GPIONUM
This is the ID of the GPIO on the specified controller that the DPIO has
wrapped up and constrained.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm dpio
.Cm define
.Op Fl r
.Op Fl w
.Op Fl K
.Ar controller/gpio
.Ar name
.Xc
The
.Cm dpio
.Cm define
subcommand creates a new DPIO named
.Ar name
from the specified GPIO
.Ar controller/gpio .
A DPIO's name may be up to 31 characters.
The first character must be alphanumeric, after which, hyphens,
underscores, periods, and plus signs are also allowed
.Po
.Sq - ,
.Sq _ ,
.Sq \&. ,
.Sq +
.Pc .
Once created, a new character device will be present at
.Pa /dev/dpio/<name>
and the GPIOs attributes will be frozen other than those that are
allowed for the DPIO to operate.
After that point, the
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm set
command will always fail until the DPIO is removed.
.Pp
The following options are supported, which modify the behavior of what the
DPIO is allowed to do:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl K
The DPIO will be constrained such that only the kernel can open it.
See the description of the
.Dq K
flag above.
.It Fl r
This allows the DPIO to be read and return the current logical value
that the pin sees.
See the description of the read capability above for more information.
.It Fl w
This allows the DPIO's logical output value to be set or disabled.
See the description of the write capability above for more information.
.El
.Pp
While it may seem weird, it is allowed to create a DPIO and not specify
either of
.Fl r
or
.Fl w .
Such a DPIO will simply remain in its fixed state.
For example, if its attributes have it set up to drive a particular
output value
.Pq or none at all for an open-drain based pin
then that will remain constant throughout the life of the DPIO.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm dpio
.Cm undefine
.Ar controller/gpio
.Xc
The
.Cm dpio
.Cm undefine
subcommand releases the corresponding DPIO that was named by its GPIO
controller and specific GPIO.
If the DPIO is currently in use, this will fail.
Once successfully completed, the
.Pa /dev
entry
.Pa /dev/dpio/<name>
will be removed and the GPIOs attributes will be unfrozen, allowing them
to be manipulated again with the
.Cm gpio
.Cm attr
.Cm set
subcommand.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility exits 0 on success.
If an error occurs, it exits 1, and provides additional details about
the underlying cause of the error.
If there was an invalid or missing command line options, then
.Nm
exits 2.
.Pp
When listing controllers, GPIOs, DPIOs, or attributes, if none are
listed or if a filter is specified but is not matched, then these
conditions are all treated as errors and
.Nm
exits 1.
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Discovering Controllers
.Pp
This example shows how you discover what controllers exist.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm controller list
CONTROLLER      NGPIOS  NDPIOS  PROVIDER
gpio_sim0       6       0       /pseudo/gpio_sim@0
gpio_sim1       6       0       /pseudo/gpio_sim@1
gpio_sim2       6       0       /pseudo/gpio_sim@2
.Ed
.Pp
The controller information can be changed by changing the fields or
adding a filter.
For example:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm controller list -o controller,ngpios,path gpio_sim2
CONTROLLER      NGPIOS  PATH
gpio_sim2       6       /pseudo/kgpio@0:gpio_sim2
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 2
Listing GPIOs avialable on the system.
.Pp
This example allows you to discover which GPIOs exist on the system and
which controllers that they belong to.
First this shows listing all the GPIOs and then limiting the request to
GPIOs on a specific controller.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm gpio list
CONTROLLER      GPIO                ID
gpio_sim0       1v8                 0
gpio_sim0       3v3                 1
gpio_sim0       12V                 2
gpio_sim0       54V                 3
gpio_sim0       periodic-500ms      4
gpio_sim0       open-drain          5
gpio_sim1       1v8                 0
gpio_sim1       3v3                 1
gpio_sim1       12V                 2
gpio_sim1       54V                 3
gpio_sim1       periodic-500ms      4
gpio_sim1       open-drain          5
gpio_sim2       1v8                 0
gpio_sim2       3v3                 1
gpio_sim2       12V                 2
gpio_sim2       54V                 3
gpio_sim2       periodic-500ms      4
gpio_sim2       open-drain          5
.Ed
.Pp
Next, to limit them, additional arguments may be passed as filters.
This will specify everything on the controller gpio_sim1 and a specific
GPIO on gpio_sim2.
A reminder that the filters are based on names.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm gpio list gpio_sim1 gpio_sim2/periodic-500ms
CONTROLLER      GPIO                ID
gpio_sim1       1v8                 0
gpio_sim1       3v3                 1
gpio_sim1       12V                 2
gpio_sim1       54V                 3
gpio_sim1       periodic-500ms      4
gpio_sim1       open-drain          5
gpio_sim2       periodic-500ms      4
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 3
Looking up a single GPIO by name and getting its attributes.
.Pp
These two commands could also be chained together through the use of a
subshell.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm gpio list -1 -p -o id gpio_sim1/3v3
1
# gpioadm gpio attr get gpio_sim1/1
ATTR                  PERM  VALUE                   POSSIBLE
name                  r-    3v3                     --
sim:output            rw    disabled                disabled,low,high
sim:input             r-    low                     low,high
sim:pull              rw    down
disabled,down,up,up|down
sim:voltage           r-    3.3V                    3.3V
sim:speed             rw    low                     low,medium,high,
                                                    very-high
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 4
Setting GPIO attributes
.Pp
Multiple GPIO attributes can be set at the same time.
They all will take effect at the same time.
This example shows setting and then getting those same properties:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm gpio attr set gpio_sim1/1 sim:pull=up sim:speed=high
# gpioadm gpio attr get gpio_sim1/1 sim:pull sim:speed
ATTR                  PERM  VALUE                   POSSIBLE
sim:pull              rw    up
disabled,down,up,up|down
sim:speed             rw    high                    low,medium,high,
                                                    very-high
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 5
Creating a DPIO
.Pp
This example shows the creation of a DPIO from a GPIO.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm dpio define -r -w gpio_sim2/2 example5
# $ ls /dev/dpio/example5
/dev/dpio/example5
# gpioadm dpio list
DPIO            CAPS            FLAGS   CONTROLLER      GPIONUM
example5        read,write      -       gpio_sim2       2
.Ed
.Pp
.Sy Example 6
Removing a DPIO
.Pp
This example removes the DPIO that we created in the prior example.
If the system has other DPIOs than the output of the final command will
be different.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# gpioadm dpio undefine gpio_sim2/2
# ls /dev/dpio/example5
/dev/dpio/example5: No such file or directory
# gpioadm dpio list
gpioadm: no DPIOs found
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line interface of
.Nm
is
.Sy Evolving .
The output of
.Nm
is
.Sy Not-An-Interface
and may change at any time.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr poll 2 ,
.Xr read 2 ,
.Xr write 2 ,
.Xr port_get 3 C
.Xr ofmt 3OFMT ,
.Xr dpio 7 ,
.Xr gpio 7 ,
.Xr ldi_open_by_name 9F
