.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2023 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd February 13, 2023
.Dt KTEST 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ktest
.Nd list and run kernel tests
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm ktest Cm help
.Pp
.Nm ktest Cm list
.Op Fl H
.Op Oo Fl p Oc Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Op Ar triple...
.Pp
.Nm ktest Cm run
.Op Fl H
.Op Oo Fl p Oc Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Op -i Ar input
.Ar triple...
.Pp
.Nm ktest Cm run-file
.Op Fl H
.Op Oo Fl p Oc Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Op Ar runfile
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
facility provides in situ kernel testing by running test code in
kernel context; essentially unit tests for the kernel.
The
.Nm
command is used to list or run registered kernel tests.
The
.Nm
command interacts with the in-kernel ktest facility by way of the
.Pa /dev/ktest
pseudo device.
A process must run in the Global Zone and have the
.Sy PRIV_SYS_DEVICES
privilege in order to access the device.
.Ss OUTPUT FIELDS
The following is a list of output fields used by the
.Nm
command along with their meanings.
.Bl -tag -offset 4m -width 8m
.It Sy MODULE
The module name of the test.
This is typically the same name as the module-under-test.
.It Sy SUITE
The suite name of the test.
.It Sy TEST
The name of the test.
.It Sy INPUT
For the
.Sy list
command this indicates if the test requires an input stream: [Y]es or [N]o.
For the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands it is the path to the input stream.
.It Sy LINE
The source code line number that produced the test
.Sy RESULT .
All
.Sy PASS
and
.Sy NONE
results have a value of 0.
Upon detection of multiple results this value indicates the line that
overwrote the previous result and the
.Sy RESULT
field contains a message with the line number of the previous result.
This field applies only to the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands.
.It Sy RESULT
The test result.
The
.Sy TEST RESULTS
section explains the different types of results.
This field applies only to the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands.
.It Sy REASON
Additional context when the test result is one of
.Sy FAIL ,
.Sy ERROR ,
or
.Sy SKIP .
This field applies only to the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands.
.El
.Ss TEST RESULTS
The different types of results that a test can produce.
.Bl -tag -offset 4m -width 8m
.It Sy PASS
The test passed.
.It Sy FAIL
The test had a logical failure (one of its assertions failed).
.It Sy ERROR
The test had an unexpected, non-logical error.
This is typically caused by a failure to acquire resources or an error
attempting some operation that is tangential to the logic under test.
.It Sy SKIP
The test decided to skip itself because it lacks the context required to run
the test.
For example, some type of missing resource or hardware.
.It Sy NONE
The test failed to produce a result.
This is a bug in the test and should be fixed.
.El
.Ss OPTIONS
The following is a list of options shared across all subcommands.
This field applies only to the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands.
.Pp
.Fl H
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
Omit column headers when printing output.
.Ed
.Pp
.Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of output fields to display.
.Ed
.Pp
.Fl p
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
Display in a machine-parsable format and elide test stats output when
executing the
.Sy run
or
.Sy run-file
commands.
The
.Fl o
option is required with
.Fl p .
.Ed
.Ss SUBCOMMANDS
.Nm ktest help
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
Print command usage.
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm ktest list
.Op Fl H
.Op Oo Fl p Oc Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Op Ar triple...
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
List all registered tests.
One or more triples may be specified to narrow the listing.
.Pp
.Ed
.Pp
.Nm ktest run
.Op Fl H
.Op Oo Fl p Oc Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Op Fl i Ar file
.Ar triple...
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
Run registered tests.
One or more triples may be specified to limit which tests are run.
At least one triple must be specified.
.Pp
.Fl i Ar file
.Ed
.Bd -ragged -offset 4m
Specify a
.Ar file
to act as the input stream for all tests requiring one.
.Ed
.Pp
.\" ktest run-file
.Nm
run-file
.Op Fl H
.Op Oo Fl p Oc Fl o Ar field Ns Op ,...
.Op Ar runfile
.Bd -ragged -offset 2m
Run the tests specified by the
.Ar runfile .
If no
.Ar runfile
is specified, then use stdin as the contents of the
.Ar runfile .
.Ed
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The following exit values are returned:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It 0
Successful completion of the command.
For the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands this also indicates that all tests produced a PASS or SKIP result.
.It 1
An error occurred while executing the command.
For the
.Sy run
and
.Sy run-file
commands this also indicates that one or more tests produced
a result other than PASS or SKIP.
.It 2
An invalid combination of command line options or arguments were
specified.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Ss List all Tests
List all tests registered with the ktest framework.
.Bd -literal -offset ident
ktest list
.Ed
.Ss Run all Tests
Run all tests registered with the ktest framework.
.Bd -literal -offset ident
ktest run '*'
.Ed
.Ss Run specific test module
This example runs only tests registered under the
.Sy mac
test module.
This includes all suites under the
.Sy mac
module and all tests under each suite.
.Bd -literal -offset ident
ktest run 'mac::'
.Ed
.Ss Execute a run file
Executes the run file named
.Sy mac.runfile
and outputs the results in parsable format to stdout.
This is useful for integrating ktest into a larger testing framework.
.Bd -literal -offset ident
ktest run-file -Hpo result,module,suite,test,input,line,reason mac.runfile
.Ed
.Ss Run a test with an input file
Execute a specific test which requires an input stream.
.Bd -literal -offset ident
ktest run -i data.pcap mac:checksum:mac_sw_cksum_ipv4_snoop_test
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command syntax is
.Sy Uncommitted .
The output format is
.Sy Uncommitted .
