.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common
.\" Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use
.\" this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy
.\" of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or
.\" http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\" limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include
.\" this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at
.\" usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below
.\" this CDDL HEADER, with
.\"
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd June 29, 2026
.Dt MPSTAT 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mpstat
.Nd report per-processor or per-processor-set statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl aq
.Op Fl p | P Ar set
.Op Fl T Cm u | d
.Op Ar interval Oo Ar count Oc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command reports processor statistics in tabular form.
Each row of the table represents the activity of one processor.
The first table summarizes all activity since boot.
Each subsequent table summarizes activity for the preceding interval.
All values are rates listed as events per second unless otherwise noted.
.Pp
During execution of the kernel status command, the state of the kernel can
change.
If relevant, a state change message is included in the
.Nm
output, in one of the following forms:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
<<processor 3 moved from pset: -1 to: 1>>
<<pset destroyed: 1>>
<<pset created: 1>>
<<processors added: 1, 3>>
<<processors removed: 1, 3>>
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Nm
command reports the following information:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy CPU No or Sy SET
Without the
.Fl a
option,
.Nm
reports
.Sy CPU
statistics for a processor ID.
With the
.Fl a
option,
.Nm
reports
.Sy SET
statistics for a processor set ID.
.It Sy minf
minor faults
.It Sy mjf
major faults
.It Sy xcal
inter-processor cross-calls
.It Sy intr
interrupts
.It Sy ithr
interrupts as threads
.Pq not counting clock interrupt
.It Sy csw
context switches
.It Sy icsw
involuntary context switches
.It Sy migr
thread migrations
.Pq to another processor
.It Sy smtx
spins on mutexes
.Pq lock not acquired on first try
.It Sy srw
spins on readers/writer locks
.Pq lock not acquired on first try
.It Sy syscl
system calls
.It Sy usr
percent user time
.It Sy sys
percent system time
.It Sy wt
the I/O wait time is no longer calculated as a percentage of CPU
time, and this statistic will always return zero.
.It Sy idl
percent idle time
.It Sy sze
number of processors in the requested processor set
.It Sy set
processor set membership of each CPU
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Aggregate output by processor set.
Sort the output by set.
The default output is sorted by CPU number.
.It Fl p
Report processor set membership of each CPU.
Sort the output by set.
The default output is sorted by CPU number.
.It Fl P Ar set
Display only those processors in the specified
.Ar set .
.It Fl q
Suppress messages related to state changes.
.It Fl T Cm u | d
Specify
.Cm u
for a printed representation of the internal representation of time.
See
.Xr time 2 .
Specify
.Cm d
for standard date format.
See
.Xr date 1 .
.It Ar interval
Report once each
.Ar interval
seconds.
.It Ar count
Only print
.Ar count
reports.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sy Example 1
Using
.Nm
to Generate User and System Operation Statistics
.Pp
The following command generates processor statistics over a five-second
interval in two reports.
The command shows the processor set membership of each CPU.
The default output is sorted by CPU number, aggregated by
.Em processor set ,
for user
.Pq Sy usr
and system
.Pq Sy sys
operations.
.Bd -literal
example% mpstat -ap 5 2

SET minf mjf xcal intr ithr csw icsw migr smtx srw syscl usr sys wt idl sze
  0    6   0  355  291  190  22    0    0    0   0    43   0   2  0  43   1
  1   24  17  534  207  200  70    1    0    2   0   600   4   1  0  84   2
  2   19   7  353  325  318  44    0    0    5   0   345   1   1  0  94   3
  3   36   2  149  237  236  14    0    0    4   0    97   0   0  0  98   2
SET minf mjf xcal intr ithr csw icsw migr smtx srw syscl usr sys wt idl sze
  0    1   0  720  405  304  55    0    0   18   0    12   0  15  0  81   1
  1    0  69 1955  230  200 313   33    4   41   9  7086  34  10  0  19   2
  2    0  46  685  314  300 203   11    0   54   1  5287  36   6  0  28   3
  3    0   0   14  386  384   0    0    0    0   0     0   0   0  0 100   2
.Ed
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line interface of
.Nm
is
.Sy Evolving .
The output of
.Nm
is
.Sy Not-An-Interface
and may change at any time.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr date 1 ,
.Xr sar 1 ,
.Xr time 2 ,
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr iostat 8 ,
.Xr sar 8 ,
.Xr vmstat 8
.Sh NOTES
The sum of CPU utilization might vary slightly from 100 due to rounding errors
in the production of a percentage figure.
.Pp
The total time used for CPU
processing is the sum of
.Sy usr
and
.Sy sys
output values, reported for user and system operations.
The
.Sy idl
value reports the time that the CPU
is idle for any reason other than pending disk I/O operations.
.Pp
Run the
.Xr iostat 8
command with the
.Fl x
option to report I/O service times in
.Sy svc_t
output.
The
.Xr iostat 8
utility also reports the same
.Sy wt ,
user
.Pq Sy us ,
and system
.Pq Sy sy
statistics.
See
.Xr iostat 8
for more information.
.Pp
When executing in a zone
and if the pools facility is active,
.Nm
will only provide information for those processors which are a member of the
processor set of the pool to which the zone
is bound.
