.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2016 Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 12, 2016
.Dt NFSMAPID 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfsmapid
.Nd NFS user and group id mapping daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm /usr/lib/nfs/nfsmapid
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
daemon maps to and from NFS version 4
.Sy owner
and
.Sy owner_group
identification attributes and local UID and GID numbers used by both the NFS
version 4 client and server.
.Pp
.Nm
uses the
.Sy passwd
and
.Sy group
entries in the
.Pa /etc/nsswitch.conf
file to direct how it performs the mappings.
.Pp
The
.Nm
daemon has no external, customer-accessible interfaces.
You can, however, administratively configure
.Nm
in one of the following ways:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Set the
.Sy nfsmapid_domain
property for the
.Nm nfs
protocol using
.Xr sharectl 8 .
.It
Specify the
.Sy _nfsv4idmapdomain
DNS resource record.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr svcs 1 ,
.Xr nfs 5 ,
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr smf 7 ,
.Xr automountd 8 ,
.Xr groupdel 8 ,
.Xr groupmod 8 ,
.Xr mount_nfs 8 ,
.Xr passmgmt 8 ,
.Xr share_nfs 8 ,
.Xr sharectl 8 ,
.Xr svcadm 8 ,
.Xr userdel 8 ,
.Xr usermod 8
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
service is managed by the service management facility,
.Xr smf 7 ,
under the service identifier:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
svc:/network/nfs/mapid
.Ed
.Pp
Administrative actions on this service, such as enabling, disabling, or
requesting restart, can be performed using
.Xr svcadm 8 .
The service's status can be queried using the
.Xr svcs 1
command.
.Pp
If it is disabled, it will be enabled by
.Xr mount_nfs 8 ,
.Xr share_nfs 8 ,
and
.Xr automountd 8 ,
unless its
.Sy application Ns / Ns Sy auto_enable
property is set to
.Sy false .
.Pp
.Nm
caches a user's UID and GID.
If a user subsequently changes a UID or GID, using one of the utilities listed
below, the
.Nm
cache becomes stale.
At this point, any NFS operation that gets or set attributes will result in the
exchange of this stale information.
To resolve this situation, restart
.Nm ,
as follows:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# svcadm restart svc:/network/nfs/mapid:default
.Ed
.Pp
The utilities that allow you to change UID and GID are:
.Bl -bullet
.It
.Xr usermod 8
.It
.Xr userdel 8
.It
.Xr groupmod 8
.It
.Xr groupdel 8
.It
.Xr passmgmt 8
.El
