.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\" Copyright 2022 Tintri by DDN, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd March 6, 2026
.Dt NVMEADM 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nvmeadm
.Nd NVMe administration utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl h
.Op Ar command
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm list
.Oo
.Fl c
.Oc
.Oo
.Fl p o Ar field Ns [,...]
.Oc
.Op Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm identify
.Op Fl C | c | d | Oo Fl a Oc Fl n
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm identify-controller
.Op Fl C | c | Oo Fl a Oc Fl n
.Ar ctl Ns [,...]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm identify-namespace
.Op Fl c | d
.Ar ctl/ns Ns [,...]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm list-logpages
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Fl s Ar scope Ns [,...]
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Op Ar logpage...
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm get-logpage
.Oo
.Fl O Ar output-file |
.Fl x |
.Fl p Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl H
.Oc
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Ar logpage
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm print-logpage
.Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl x | p Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl H
.Ar logpage
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm list-features
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Op Ar feature...
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm get-features
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Op Ar feature-list
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm format
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Op Ar lba-format
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm secure-erase
.Op Fl c
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm create-namespace
.Fl b Ar block-size | Fl f Ar flbas
.Op Fl c Ar cap
.Op Fl n Ar nmic
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Ar ctl
.Ar size
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm delete-namespace
.Ar ctl/ns
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm attach-namespace
.Ar ctl/ns
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm detach-namespace
.Ar ctl/ns
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm attach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm detach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm list-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm load-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Ar firmware-file
.Op Ar offset
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm commit-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Ar slot
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm activate-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Ar slot
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm measure-phyeye
.Fl o Ar output
.Op Fl Q Ar good | better | best
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm report-phyeye
.Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl l Ar lane
.Op Fl e Ar eye
.Op Fl m Ar mode
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm vendor-cmd
.Fl O Ar opcode
.Op Fl n Ar nsid
.Op Fl -cdw12 Ar cdw12
.Op Fl -cdw13 Ar cdw13
.Op Fl -cdw14 Ar cdw14
.Op Fl -cdw15 Ar cdw15
.Op Fl l Ar length Op Fl i Ar file | Fl o Ar file
.Op Fl L Ar lock
.Op Fl I Ar impact Ns Op , Ns Ar ...
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm sandisk/hwrev
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm sandisk/pci-eye
.Fl l Ar lane
.Fl o Ar output
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm wdc/e6dump
.Fl o Ar output
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm wdc/resize
.Fl s Ar size | Fl g
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm wdc/clear-assert
.Ar ctl
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm wdc/inject-assert
.Ar ctl
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility can be used to enumerate the NVMe controllers and their
namespaces, query hardware information from a NVMe controller or
namespace, and to format or secure-erase a NVMe controller or
namespace.
.Pp
The information returned by the hardware is printed by
.Nm
in a human-readable form were applicable.
Generally all 0-based counts are normalized and values may be
converted to human-readable units such as MB (megabytes), W (watts),
or C (degrees Celsius).
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Print a short help text for
.Nm ,
or for an optionally specified
.Nm
command.
.It Fl d
Enable debugging output.
.It Fl v
Enable verbose output.
.El
.Sh ARGUMENTS
.Nm
expects the following kinds of arguments:
.Bl -tag -width "ctl[/ns]"
.It Ar command
Any command
.Nm
understands.
See section
.Sx COMMANDS .
.It Ar ctl[/ns]
Specifies a NVMe controller and optionally a namespace within that
controller.
The controller name consists of the driver name
.Qq nvme
followed by an instance number.
A namespace is specified by appending a single
.Qq /
to the controller name, followed by either the namespace ID or the namespace
EUI64 or NGUID as reported by the
.Cm identify
command.
The namespace ID is a positive non-zero decimal number.
For commands that don't change the device state multiple controllers
and namespaces can be specified as a comma-separated list.
.Pp
The list of controllers and namespaces present in the system can be
queried with the
.Cm list
command without any arguments.
.It Ar logpage
Specifies the log page name for the
.Cm get-logpage
and
.Cm print-logpage
command.
Valid names are listed in the discussion of the
.Cm get-logpage
command below.
Log pages both the system and controller support can be determined with
the
.Cm list-logpages
command.
.It Ar filter
Various commands take a filter to print out portions of a data structure
such as a log page.
A filter is a series of dot delineated
.Pq Dq \&.
strings that define which portion of the data structure to list.
Short names for fields come from the relevant NVMe specifications and
are treated as a committed interface
.Pq aliases will be provided in the face of changes in the spec .
.Pp
The matching behavior varies between parsable and non-parsable output.
Consider the filter
.Dq eom.od.pefp .
This prints the Printable Eye Field Present member, from the Optional
Data Present Field, from the EOM Header that is part of the phyeye log
page.
In non-parsable mode, the filter
.Dq eom
would match the entire contents of the EOM header.
However, in parsable mode, only an exact match fires to ensure that the
contents are stable across changes to the specification which add
members to reserved fields.
.Pp
When using filters, the program will exit non-zero if any filter does
not match.
.It Ar feature-list
A comma-separated list of feature names for the
.Cm get-features
command.
Feature names can be specified in upper or lower case.
All features can be specified either by a short name listed below or by
the full name that the specification uses.
.It Ar lba-format
A non-zero integer specifying the LBA format for the
.Cm format
command.
The list of supported LBA formats on a namespace can be retrieved
with the
.Nm
.Cm identify
command.
.It Ar firmware-file
Specifies the name of a firmware file to be loaded into the controller
using the
.Cm load-firmware
command.
.It Ar offset
Specifies the byte offset at which to load
.It Ar output-file
Specifies a file system location to write raw binary data out to.
.Ar firmware-file
within the controller's upload buffer.
Vendors may require multiple images to be loaded at different offsets
before a firmware set is committed to a
.Ar slot .
.It Ar scope
Specifies the scope of a given type of thing to look at, such as a log
page.
Scopes can either be specified by their full name or a shortened form.
For log pages, the following scopes are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy controller
Indicates that the log is scoped to the controller.
The short form is
.Dq ctrl .
.It Sy nvm
Indicates that the log is scoped to the NVM subsystem.
There is no short form.
.It Sy namespace
Indicates that the log is scoped to the namespace.
The short form is
.Dq ns .
.El
.Pp
For more information on the differences between these, please see the
NVMe specification.
.It Ar size
Indicates a size in bytes.
The size may be specified in base 10 or in hexadecimal.
An optional binary prefix may follow the string.
For example, a size of 10G would indicate 10 GiB
.Pq Gibibytes
or 10,737,418,240 bytes.
Valid binary prefixes include:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy b, B
The size is in bytes.
It is not adjusted.
.It Sy k, K
The size is in KiB.
It will be multiplied by 2^10.
.It Sy m, M
The size is in MiB.
It will be multiplied by 2^20.
.It Sy g, G
The size is in GiB.
It will be multiplied by 2^30.
.It Sy t, T
The size is in TiB.
It will be multiplied by 2^40.
.It Sy p, P
The size is in PiB.
It will be multiplied by 2^50.
.El
.Pp
This is used by the
.Cm create-namespace
command.
.It Ar slot
Specifies the firmware slot into which a firmware set is committed
using the
.Cm commit-firmware
command, and subsequently activated with the
.Cm activate-firmware
command.
Slots and their contents can be printed using the
.Nm
.Cm list-firmware
command.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm list
.Oo
.Fl c
.Oc
.Oo
.Fl p o Ar field Ns [,...]
.Oc
.Op Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Xc
Lists the NVMe controllers and by default also their active
namespaces, printing a 1-line summary of their basic properties for each.
If a list of controllers and/or namespaces is given then the listing
is limited to those devices.
If no controllers or namespaces are given as arguments, then all controllers
in the system and their respective active namespaces are listed.
When using the
.Fl v
option
to
.Nm ,
all possible namespaces of the controllers will be listed.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Cm list
command supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl c
List controllers only and not their namespaces.
.It Fl p
Produce parsable output rather than human-readable output.
This option requires that output fields be selected with the
.Fl o
option.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-separated list of one or more output fields to be used.
Fields are listed below and the name is case insensitive.
.El
.Pp
The following fields can be specified when using the parsable form:
.Bl -tag -width UNALLOCATED
.It Sy MODEL
The model number of the device, generally containing information about
both the manufacturer and the product.
.It Sy SERIAL
The NVMe controller's serial number.
.It Sy FWREV
The controller's firmware revision.
.It Sy VERSION
The version of the NVMe specification the controller supports.
.It Sy INSTANCE
The name of the device node and instance of it.
.It Sy CTRLPATH
The
.Pa /devices
path of the controller.
.El
.Pp
In addition, the following fields can be specified when listing namespaces, not
using the
.Fl c
option:
.Bl -tag -width UNALLOCATED
.It Sy CAPACITY
The amount of logical bytes that the namespace may actually have allocated at
any time.
This may be different than size due to the use of thin provisioning or due to
administrative action.
.It Sy SIZE
The logical size in bytes of the namespace.
.It Sy USED
The number of bytes used in the namespace.
.It Sy NAMESPACE
The numerical value of the namespace which can be used as part of other
.Nm
operations.
.It Sy DISK
The name of the disk device that corresponds to the namespace, if any.
.It Sy NS-STATE
The current state of the namespace.
This is one of the following:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dq unallocated
the namesapce is currently unallocated.
There is no non-volatile memory assosciated with it.
.It Dq allocated
The namespace has non-volatile memory allocated to it, but it is not currently
attached to the controller.
.It Dq active
The namespace is currently attached to the local controller; however, the kernel
cannot actively attach a block device to the driver.
.It Dq active-usable
The namespace is currently attached to the local controller and the kernel can
use the namespace with
.Xr blkdev 4D .
.It Dq blkdev
The namespace is exposing a block device and is actively attached to
.Xr blkdev 4D .
.El
.It Sy FORMAT
The current LBA format of the namespace printed as a string comprised of
the data section and the metadata section generally structured as
.Ql data+meta .
For example, a 4K formatted namespace with no metadata sectors would be
shown as
.Ql 4096+0 .
A 512-byte formatted namespace with 16 bytes of metadata
.Pq perhaps for end-to-end data protection
would be formatted as
.Ql 4096+16 .
.It Sy FMTID
The numerical ID of the namespace's LBA format.
This may be used as the
.Ar lba-format
argument to the
.Cm format
subcommand.
.It Sy FMTDS
The data size, in bytes, of the namespace's LBA format.
.It Sy FMTMS
The metadata size, in bytes, of the namespace's LBA format.
.El
.Pp
When using the
.Fl c
option to list controllers, the following additional fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width UNALLOCATED
.It Sy CAPACITY
The total raw capacity of the NVMe controller in bytes.
.It Sy UNALLOCATED
The number of bytes not currently assigned to any namespace in the controller.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm identify-controller
.Op Fl C | c | Oo Fl a Oc Fl n
.Ar ctl Ns [,...]
.Xc
Print detailed information about the specified controllers.
For an explanation of the data printed by this command refer to the description
of the
.Qq IDENTIFY
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.Pp
By default, a relevant subset of the
.Qq IDENTIFY CONTROLLER
data structure is printed.
The full data structure is only printed when verbose output is requested.
.Pp
The following options can be used to print other
.Qq IDENTIFY
information:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl C
Print the Common Namespace Identification of the controller.
.It Fl a
Alter the output of the
.Fl n
option to print the list allocated namespace identifiers.
Can only be specified together with the
.Fl n
option.
.It Fl c
Print the list of all unique controller identifiers in the NVMe subsystem the
specified controller belongs to.
.It Fl n
Print the list of active namespace identifiers of the controller.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm identify-namespace
.Op Fl c | d
.Ar ctl/ns Ns [,...]
.Xc
Print detailed information about the specified namespace.
For an explanation of the data printed by this command refer to the description
of the
.Qq IDENTIFY
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.Pp
By default, a relevant subset of the
.Qq IDENTIFY NAMESPACE
data structure is printed.
The full data structure is only printed when verbose output is requested.
.Pp
The following options can be used to print other
.Qq IDENTIFY
information:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl c
Print the list of all unique controller identifiers in the NVMe subsystem the
specified namespace belongs to and which are currently attached to this
namespace.
.It Fl d
Print the list of namespace identification descriptors of the namespace.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm identify
.Op Fl C | c | d | Oo Fl a Oc Fl n
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Xc
Short-hand for the
.Cm identify-controller
and
.Cm identify-namespace
commands, prints the same information about the specified controllers and/or
namespaces, depending on whether a controller or a namespace was specified.
.Pp
For a description of the various optional flags refer to the above description
of the
.Cm identify-controller
and
.Cm identify-namespace
commands.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm list-logpages
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Op Fl s Ar scope Ns [,...]
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Op Ar logpage...
.Xc
Prints the list of log pages and information about them specific to the
given controller or namespace.
This is intended as a discovery mechanism and will print information
about mandatory, optional, and vendor-specific log pages as well as all
the information that is useful for retrieving information about them.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Cm list-logpages
command supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl a
Print all log pages.
By default, only logs that are implemented are printed.
.It Fl H
Omit the output header columns.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-separated list of one or more output fields to be used.
Fields are listed below and the name is case insensitive.
.It Fl p
Produce parsable output rather than human-readable output.
This option requires that output fields be selected with the
.Fl o
option.
.It Fl s Ar scope Ns [,...]
Print log pages that match the specified scope.
If no
.Ar scope
arguments are specified, then the scope will be set to
.Dq ctrl,nvm
when the device is a controller and
.Dq ns
when the device refers to a namespace.
.El
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width MINSIZE
.It Sy DEVICE
Prints the name of the controller or namespace.
.It Sy NAME
Prints the name of the log page.
This is the name that can be used to get the log page with the
.Cm get-logpage
command.
This is a shortened form from the NVMe or vendor-specific documentation.
.It Sy DESC
This is a description of the log page and generally corresponds to
information from the specification the log page is drawn from.
.It Sy SCOPE
This is the set of scopes that the log page is applicable to.
As described earlier in the manual, valid scopes include
.Dq ctrl ,
.Dq nvm ,
and
.Dq ns .
This indicates whether a controller
.Po
.Dq ctrl
and
.Dq nvm
.Pc
or a namespace
.Po
.Dq ns
.Pc
will work for this log page when running the
.Cm get-logpage
command to get the log.
.It Sy FIELDS
This indicates the command fields that are accepted when retrieving the
log page from the controller.
The fields include:
.Bl -tag -width lsp
.It Sy lsp
Indicates that a log specific parameter is accepted for this page.
.It Sy lsi
Indicates that a log specific identifier is accepted for this page.
.It Sy rae
Indicates that one can control whether or not an asynchronous event is
retained when retrieving the log page.
By default, asynchronous events are cleared when certain log pages are
fetched such as the health log page.
.El
For more information on these fields, please see the NVMe specification.
.It Sy CSI
Indicates the log page's command set interface.
.It Sy LID
Indicates the log page's numeric ID.
This when combined with the log page's CSI is the unique identifier that
identifies the log page to the controller.
.It Sy IMPL
Indicates whether or not the system believes that the log page is
implemented.
.It Sy SIZE
Indicates the size of the log page.
Not all log pages have a fixed size and in such cases this field will
not contain a value.
.It Sy MINSIZE
When a log page is known to have a variable size, this indicates the
minimum amount of the log page to read to determine the full size of the
log page.
.It Sy SOURCES
This is a comma separated list of values that indicates where
information about this log page and its support came from primarily.
These include the following:
.Bl -tag -width identify-controller
.It Dq spec
This comes from the NVMe specification.
Generally this refers to mandatory log pages that are not dependent on
any information in the identify controller data structure.
.It Dq identify-controller
Information about this log page comes from the identify controller data
structure.
Many log pages are described by the standard but are optional and their
support is indicated through that.
.It Dq internal-db
This indicates that information about this log page comes from our
internal databases in libnvme.
Most vendor-specific logs are described in datasheets whose information
is encoded into the library and system and there is not always a way to
discover that it is supported or not.
.It Dq command
This indicates that information about this log page came from another
command that was issued to the controller which indicates what was
implemented and present.
.El
.It Sy KIND
This indicates the kind of log page that this is.
Valid options are:
.Bl -tag -width vendor-specific
.It Dq mandatory
Indicates that the NVMe specification considers this mandatory for all
controllers of a given version.
.It Dq optional
Indicates that the NVMe specification considers this log page optional.
Some items may be mandatory if a device implements an optional feature
like namespace management, but they will still be considered optional as
the underlying feature is.
.It Dq vendor-specific
Indicates that this log is a vendor-specific log page.
These log pages are not part of the NVMe standard and are generally
described in their own device's datasheets or a separate standard such
as the
.%T OCP Datacenter NVMe SSD Specification .
.El
.El
.Pp
The
.Cm list-logpages
command supports a series of operands which can be used to filter the
list of log pages that information is printed out about.
Each
.Ar logpage
operand is the name of a log page.
Only matching log pages will be printed and if no log pages match a
given operand argument or not log pages are printed at all
.Pq which can happen due to a log being unsupported
then the command will generate an error.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm get-logpage
.Fl O Ar output-file |
.Fl x |
.Fl p Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl H
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Ar logpage
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Xc
Print the specified log page of the specified controllers and/or namespaces.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Cm get-logpage
command supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl H
Omit the output header columns when using parsable output.
.It Fl O Ar output-file
Write the raw contents of the binary payload to
.Ar output-file .
Its contents will not be interpreted or printed out otherwise.
Filters may not be used when writing raw data out.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-separated list of one or more output fields to be used.
Fields are listed below and the name is case insensitive.
.It Fl p
Produce parsable output rather than human-readable output.
This option requires that output fields be selected with the
.Fl o
option.
.It Fl x
Print the raw output of
.Ar logpage
as a series of human-readable hexadecimal output with the log page
address and ASCII decoding.
Filters may not be used with the
.Fl x
option.
.El
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width OFFSET
.It Sy SHORT
This is the full dot-delineated short name that refers to a specific
field in a log page.
For items from the NVMe specification, this is the field's abbreviation
found in the specification.
The short form is used in filters and its value is considered a
committed interface.
.It Sy DESC
This is a description of a field for a log page.
This value comes from the NVMe specification or vendor specification.
The description string for a field may change over time.
.It Sy VALUE
This is the underlying binary value found inside of a log page's field
printed in hexadecimal.
The value is not interpreted or adjusted.
For example, many values in the NVMe specification are 0s based values,
meaning to get the actual value one has to add one to it.
.It Sy HUMAN
This is a human-readable version of the field's value.
The human-readable output of a field may change over time due to changes
in the specification, bugs, or improvements to
.Nm .
.It Sy OFFSET
This is the offset to the start of the field in bytes.
The additional sub-byte bit offset to the start of the field is
communicated with the
.Sy BITOFF
field.
.It Sy BITOFF
This is the additional offset to the start of the field in bits.
This field will only ever be in the range of 0-7 and must be combined
with the
.Sy OFFSET
field to get the total length.
.It Sy LENGTH
This is the length of the field in bytes.
The additional sub-byte bit length is communicated with the
.Sy BITOFF
field.
.It Sy BITLEN
This is the additional length of the field in bits.
This field will only ever be in the range of 0-7 and must be combined
with the
.Sy LENGTH
field to get the total length.
.El
.Pp
Most log pages are only available on a per-controller basis.
For an explanation of the contents of the log pages refer to the
description of the
.Qq GET LOGPAGE
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.Pp
One or more
.Ar filter
operands may be supplied to a subset of log pages.
These filters will limit the fields that are printed in both parsable
and human-readable mode.
Log pages the system does not know how to decode are printed in a
hexadecimal dump and filters are not supported.
.Pp
Known log pages are:
.Bl -tag -width "telemetry"
.It suplog
Supported Log Pages.
Lists information about log pages that the device supports.
Available starting in NVMe 2.0 devices.
.It error
Error Information
.It health
SMART/Health Information.
A controller may support this log page on a per-namespace basis.
.It firmware
Firmware Slot Information
.It changens
Changed Namespaces.
.It supcmd
Commands Supported and Effects.
An optional log page added in NVMe 1.2 that indicates what commands
the controller itself actually supports.
.It pev
Persistent Event Log.
An optional log page added in NVMe 1.4 that contains a series of events
that have occurred on the device.
.It telemetry
Host-initiated telemetry log.
Contains vendor-specific diagnostic information about the controller.
This log page requires that the
.Fl O
option be specified.
.It supfeat
Feature Identifiers Supported and Effects.
A mandatory log page added in NVMe 2.0 that indicates which features are
supported and their corresponding effects.
.It supmicmd
NVMe-MI Commands Supported and Effects.
A mandatory log page added in NVMe 2.0 that indicates which management
interface commands are supported and their corresponding effects.
.It phyeye
Physical Interface Receiver Eye Opening Measurement.
An optional log page that provides a way of measuring the eye of the
controller's PHY, generally meaning all lanes of a PCIe device.
See the
.Cm measure-phyeye
and
.Cm report-phyeye
commands for specialized subcommands dedicated to this.
.El
.Pp
The following vendor-specific log pages are supported.
Not all devices from a vendor support every log page.
Use the
.Cm list-logpages
command to determine which are supported for a given device and whether
they operate on a controller or namespace.
.Bl -tag -width "solidigm/outlier"
.It kioxia/extsmart
Kioxia Extended SMART.
.It micron/smart
Micron Vendor Unique SMART.
.It micron/extsmart
Micron Extended SMART.
.It ocp/smart
Open Compute Datacenter NVMe SSD specification SMART / Health information.
.It ocp/errrec
Open Compute Datacenter NVMe SSD specification error recovery log.
.It ocp/fwact
Open Compute Datacenter NVMe SSD specification firmware activation log.
.It ocp/latency
Open Compute Datacenter NVMe SSD specification latency monitor.
.It ocp/devcap
Open Compute Datacenter NVMe SSD specification device capabilities.
.It ocp/unsup
Open Compute Datacenter NVMe SSD specification unsupported requirements.
.It solidigm/rlat
Solidigm/Intel read command latency statistics.
.It solidigm/wlat
Solidigm/Intel write command latency statistics.
.It solidigm/temp
Solidigm/Intel temperature statistics.
.It solidigm/smart
Solidigm/Intel vendor unique SMART log.
.It solidigm/ioqueue
Solidigm/Intel I/O queue metrics.
.It solidigm/name
Solidigm/Intel drive marketing name.
.It solidigm/power
Solidigm/Intel power usage.
.It solidigm/gc
Solidigm/Intel garbage collection.
.It solidigm/outlier
Solidigm/Intel latency outlier.
.It wdc/eol
Western Digital end-of-life.
.It wdc/devmgmt
Western Digital device manageability.
.It wdc/pciesi
Western Digital PCIe signal integrity.
.It wdc/power
Western Digital power samples.
.It wdc/temp
Western Digital temperature samples.
.It wdc/fwact
Western Digital firmware activation history.
.It wdc/ccds
Western Digital CCDS build information.
.It wdc/cusmart
Western Digital customer unique SMART data.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm print-logpage
.Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl x | p Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl H
.Ar logpage
.Op Ar filter Ns ...
.Xc
Print and decode the specified log page contents from a file.
Where the
.Cm get-logpage
command retrieves an individual log page from a device, the
.Cm print-logpage
instead reads log page data from an input file
.Ar file ,
but otherwise provides the same decoding and filtering capabilities.
This allows a log page to be interpreted multiple times without asking
for the controller for a fresh copy and allows log pages from remote
hosts to be processed locally.
To capture the binary log file use
.Nm
.Cm get-logpage
.Fl O .
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Cm print-logpage
command supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl f Ar file
Read the log page contents from the specified
.Ar file .
This option is required.
.It Fl H
Omit the output header columns when using parsable output.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-separated list of one or more output fields to be used.
Fields are listed below and the name is case insensitive.
.It Fl p
Produce parsable output rather than human-readable output.
This option requires that output fields be selected with the
.Fl o
option.
.It Fl x
Print the raw output of
.Ar logpage
as a series of human-readable hexadecimal output with the log page
address and ASCII decoding.
Filters and parsable output may not be used with the
.Fl x
option.
.El
.Pp
The
.Cm print-logpage
command supports the same fields, filters, and log page names as the
.Cm get-logpage
command.
See
.Sx Examples .
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm list-features
.Op Fl a
.Op Fl H
.Op Fl o Ar field Ns [,...] Op Fl p
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Op Ar feature Ns [,...]
.Xc
Prints the list of features and information about them specific to the
given controller or namespace.
This is intended as a discovery mechanism and will print information
about known mandatory, optional, and vendor-specific features as well as
the information that is useful for retrieving information about them.
.Pp
The
.Nm
.Cm list-features
command supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl a
Print all features, regardless of whether or not the controller is known
to implement them.
By default unimplemented features are not printed, but implemented and
unknown ones are.
.It Fl H
Omit the output header columns.
.It Fl o Ar field Ns [,...]
A comma-separated list of one or more output fields to be used.
Fields are listed below and the name is case insensitive.
.It Fl p
Produce parsable output rather than human-readable output.
This option requires that output fields be selected with the
.Fl o
option.
.El
.Pp
The following fields are supported:
.Bl -tag -width DATALEN
.It Sy DEVICE
Prints the name of the controller or namespace.
.It Sy SHORT
This is a shortened name for a feature which can be used to identify it.
These short names are unique to illumos and not part of the NVMe
specification.
.It Sy SPEC
This is the specification's name for a given feature.
.It Sy FID
This is the numeric ID that can be used to uniquely identify a feature.
.It Sy SCOPE
This is a comma separated list of values that identifies what scopes
this feature covers.
The supported scopes are
.Dq controller ,
which indicates that it impacts the entire controller and
.Dq namespace ,
which indicates that it impacts just a single namespace.
.It Sy KIND
This indicates the kind of feature that this is.
Valid options are:
.Bl -tag -width vendor-specific
.It Dq mandatory
Indicates that the NVMe specification considers this mandatory for all
controllers of a given version.
.It Dq optional
Indicates that the NVMe specification considers this feature optional.
Some items may be mandatory if a device implements an optional feature
like namespace management, but they will still be considered optional as
the underlying feature is.
.It Dq vendor-specific
Indicates that this log is a vendor-specific feature.
These features are not part of the NVMe standard and are generally
described in their own device's datasheets or a separate standard such
as the
.%T OCP Datacenter NVMe SSD Specification .
.El
.It Sy CSI
The command set interface that the feature is specific to.
Most features are not specific to a CSI.
.It Sy FLAGS
The flags are a series of comma separated strings which describe
properties of the feature.
The following flags are currently supported:
.Bl -tag -width "get-bcastns"
.It Dq get-bcastns
Indicates that the broadcast namespace is supported when getting this
feature.
.It Dq set-bcastns
Indicates that the broadcast namespace is supported when setting this
feature.
Using the broadcast namespace indicates that all namespace are impacted.
.El
.It Sy GET-IN
A series of comma separated values indicating what is required to get
this feature.
The following values are supported:
.Bl -tag -width cdw11
.It cdw11
Indicates that the feature requires an argument in the cdw11 field of
the command.
This is generally a selector of some kind.
For example, for the temperature threshold feature, it selects which of
several sensors may be referred to.
.It data
Indicates that a data buffer is required when getting this feature.
Its size is indicated by the DATALEN field.
.It nsid
Indicates that a namespace ID is required when getting this feature.
.El
.It Sy SET-IN
A series of comma separated values indicating what is required to get
this feature.
The following values are supported:
.Bl -tag -width cdw11
.It cdw11
Indicates that the feature uses information in cdw11 to set the feature.
.It cdw12
Indicates that the feature uses information in cdw12 to set the feature.
.It cdw13
Indicates that the feature uses information in cdw13 to set the feature.
.It cdw14
Indicates that the feature uses information in cdw14 to set the feature.
.It cdw15
Indicates that the feature uses information in cdw15 to set the feature.
.It data
Indicates that the feature takes a data payload to set the feature.
Its size is indicated by the DATALEN field.
.It nsid
Indicates that the feature requires a valid namespace identifier.
.El
.It Sy GET-OUT
A series of comma separated values indicating what the controller will
return information about this feature in.
The following values are supported:
.Bl -tag -width cdw0
.It cdw0
Indicates that the controller will give information about the feature in
the command output 32-bit value.
.It data
Indicates that the controller will output information about the feature
into the output buffer.
.El
.It Sy SET-OUT
A series of comma separated values indicating what the controller will
update following the successful completion of setting the feature.
These values are the same as with the GET-OUT field.
.It Sy DATALEN
Indicates the length of data for the feature.
.It Sy IMPL
Indicates whether or not the feature is known to be implemented or not.
The following values are possible:
.Bl -tag -width unknown
.It Dq unknown
Indicates that it is unknown as to whether or not the feature is
implemented.
Some features are optional and there is no way to determine this short
of issuing an attempt to get the feature itself.
.It Dq yes
Indicates that we know the feature is implemented by the controller.
.It Dq no
Indicates that we know the feature is not implemented by the controller.
.El
.El
.Pp
The
.Cm list-features
command supports a series of operands which can be used to filter the
list of features that information is printed out about.
Each
.Ar feature
operand is either the short name or the specification's name for a given
feature.
In addition, the numeric feature ID can also be used as a filter.
If no features match a given operand or no features are printed at all
then the command will generate an error.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm get-features
.Ar ctl[/ns] Ns [,...]
.Op Ar feature-list
.Xc
Prints information about the specified features, or all features if
none are given, of the specified controllers and/or namespaces.
Feature names are case-insensitive, and they can be shortened as long
as they remain unique.
Some features also have alternative short names to which the same
rules apply.
The following features are supported:
.Pp
.TS
tab(:);
l l l.
FULL NAME:SHORT NAME:CONTROLLER/NAMESPACE
Arbitration:arb:controller
Power Management:pm:controller
LBA Range Type:range:namespace
Temperature Threshold:temp:controller
Error Recovery:errec:controller
Volatile Write Cache:cache:controller
Number of Queues:queues:controller
Interrupt Coalescing:coalescing:controller
Interrupt Vector Configuration:vector:controller
Write Atomicity:atomicity:controller
Asynchronous Event Configuration:event:controller
Autonomous Power State Transition:apst:controller
Software Progress Marker:progress:controller
Host Behavior Support:hostsup:controller
.TE
.Pp
For an explanation of the individual features refer to the description
of the
.Qq SET FEATURES
admin command in the NVMe specification.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm format
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Op Ar lba-format
.Xc
Formats the specified namespace or all namespaces of the specified
controller.
This command implies a
.Nm
.Cm detach
and subsequent
.Nm
.Cm attach
of the specified namespace(s), which will cause a changed LBA format
to be detected.
If no LBA format is specified the LBA format currently used by the
namespace will be used.
When formatting all namespaces without specifying a LBA format the LBA
format of namespace 1 will be used.
A list of LBA formats supported by a namespace can be queried with the
.Nm
.Cm identify
command.
.Pp
Note that not all devices support formatting individual or all
namespaces, or support formatting at all.
.Pp
LBA formats using a non-zero metadata size are not supported by
.Nm
or
.Xr nvme 4D .
.Pp
The list of supported LBA formats on a namespace can be retrieved
with the
.Nm
.Cm identify
command.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm secure-erase
.Op Fl c
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Xc
Erases the specified namespace or all namespaces of the controller.
The flag
.Fl c
will cause a cryptographic erase instead of a normal erase.
This command implies a
.Nm
.Cm detach
and
.Nm
.Cm attach
of the specified namespace(s).
.Pp
Note that not all devices support erasing individual or all
namespaces, or support erasing at all.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm create-namespace
.Fl b Ar block-size | Fl f Ar flbas
.Op Fl c Ar cap
.Op Fl n Ar nmic
.Op Fl t Ar type
.Ar ctl
.Ar size
.Xc
Creates a new namespace of size
.Ar size
in the controller
.Ar ctl .
NVM will be allocated for the namespace and the namespace will transition to the
allocated state.
A created namespace must subsequently be attached to the local controller,
.Cm attach-namespace ,
and to the block device framework
.Pq Xr blkdev 4D ,
.Cm attach ,
to provide I/O capabilities.
.Pp
By default, a newly created namespace:
.Bl -bullet
.It
Uses the NVM command set interface
.Pq CSI .
This can be changed with the
.Fl t
option.
.It
Has the namespace's capacity set to the namespace's size.
To thinly provision a namespace, you may use the
.Fl c
option to specify a value less than the
.Ar size
argument.
Note, the controller may not support thin provisioning.
.It
Configures the namespace so it may only be used with one controller at a time.
This can be changed with the
.Fl n
option.
.El
.Pp
When creating a namespace, one must specify what formatted LBA index to use.
This index may be specified directly with the
.Fl f
option or instead the target block size may be specified with the
.Fl b
option.
If
.Fl b
is specified, then the command will search for a namespace with that block size,
with no metdata section, and with the highest relative performance and use that.
Available LBA format options may be listed by printing the Common Namespace
Identification values through the
.Nm identify-controller
option with the
.Fl C
option.
.Pp
The
.Cm create-namespace
command supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl b Ar block-size
Specifies the target data block size of the namespace to be created.
This option is exclusive with the
.Fl f
option.
.Ar block-size
allow a binary prefix to be specified as per the description of the
.Ar size
operand.
.It Fl c Ar cap
Specifies the namespace's capacity in bytes, which may use a binary prefix like,
such as
100G,
as per the description of the
.Ar size
operand.
If this option is left out, the namespace's capacity will be set to its size,
fully provisioning the namespace.
Not all controllers support thinly provisioning a namespace.
.It Fl f Ar flbas
Specifies the index of the formatted LBA size.
.It Fl n Ar nmic
Specifies the multipath I/O and namespace sharing capabilities.
The current valid options for this are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy none
Indicates that only a single controller may attach to the namespace at any given
time.
.It Sy shared
Indicates that two or more controllers may attach to the namespace at the same
time.
.El
.It Fl t Ar type
Specifies the command set interface for newly created namespace.
The default is
.Dq nvm .
The system understands the following command set interfaces; however, not all
controllers support all CSIs and currently the
.Xr nvme 4D
driver only supports the
NVM CSI.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It nvm
The non-volatile memory CSI.
This is the default CSI of all NVMe devices and provides a regular block
interface.
.It kv
Key Value command set interface.
This interface does not provide standard a logical block abstraction and instead
allows for someone to read and write an arbitrary-sized object with a 128-bit
key.
.It zns
Zoned namespace command set interface.
This interface provides a block-like abstraction where blocks are broken into
different sized zones, which contain ranges of logical blocks.
Writing to a zone offers different semantics from a common block device.
.El
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm delete-namespace
.Ar ctl/ns
.Xc
This deletes the specified namespace, freeing any capacity back to the
underlying NVM subsystem.
The namespace identifier will be considered inactive in
.Ar ctl .
.Pp
To delete a namespace, the namespace must already be detached from all
controllers through the
.Cm detach-namespace
command.
.Pp
Upon deleting a namespace, all information that was contained in the namespace
.Sy will be lost .
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm attach-namespace
.Ar ctl/ns
.Xc
Attach the specified namespace to the controller
.Ar ctl .
This will transition the namespace to the active state, allowing additional
information about the namespace to be queried.
This also allows the namespace to provide a block device interface through
.Xr blkdev 4D ,
which can be enabled by subsequently using the
.Cm attach
command.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm detach-namespace
.Ar ctl/ns
.Xc
Detach the specified namespace from the controller
.Ar ctl .
The namespace must already be detached from
.Xr blkdev 4D
through the
.Cm detach command.
When detached, the namespace transitions from active to allocated in the
controller.
Data in the namespace remains valid; however, not all commands will function
against the namespace and I/O may not be performed to it.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm attach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Xc
Attaches the
.Xr blkdev 4D
instance to the specified namespace or all namespaces of the controller.
This will make I/O accesses to the namespace(s) possible again after a
previous
.Nm
.Cm detach
command.
.Pp
It is not an error to attach a namespace that is already attached, any such
request will be silently ignored.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm detach
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Xc
Temporarily detaches the
.Xr blkdev 4D
instance from the specified namespace or all namespaces of the controller.
This will prevent I/O access to the affected namespace(s).
Detach will only succeed if the affected namespace(s) are not
currently opened.
The detached state will not persist across reboots or reloads of the
.Xr nvme 4D
driver.
.Pp
It is not an error to detach a namespace that is already detached, any such
request will be silently ignored.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm list-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Xc
List currently active firmware slot, the next active firmware slot, and the
current contents of all firmware slots of an NVMe controller.
This is a synonym for the
.Nm
.Cm get-logpage
.Ar ctl
.Cm firmware
command.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm load-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Ar firmware-file
.Op Ar offset
.Xc
Loads
.Ar firmware-file
into the controller's upload memory at
.Ar offset ,
the default is 0. A vendor may require multiple files to be loaded
at different offsets before the firmware is committed to a
.Ar slot .
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm commit-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Ar slot
.Xc
Commits firmware previously loaded by the
.Cm load-firmware
command to
.Ar slot .
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm activate-firmware
.Ar ctl
.Ar slot
.Xc
Activates the firmware in slot
.Ar slot .
The firmware image in
.Ar slot
is activated at the next NVM controller reset.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm measure-phyeye
.Fl o Ar output
.Op Fl Q Ar good | better | best
.Ar ctl
.Xc
Perform a measurement of the physical interface's eye opening on the
specified controller,
.Ar ctl ,
and write the resulting measurement to
.Ar output .
The output file will be a version of the
.Dq phyeye
log page whose contents can be interpreted with the
.Cm report-phyeye
and
.Cm print-logpage
commands.
.Pp
The quality of the log page may be one of
.Dq good ,
.Dq better ,
or
.Dq best ,
which are levels described by the NVMe over PCIe Transport
Specification.
The higher the quality, the longer the measurement will take, but the
more accurate it will be.
.Pp
When the measurement is initiated, no additional administrative commands
will be allowed on the device, though any active
.Xr blkdev 4D
devices will still be active.
It is recommended I/O be quiesced during the entire measurement period.
The command will wait for the device's recommended time, potentially
5-10 minutes, before it queries the device for completeness.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl o
Write the contents of the physical eye measurement to
.Ar output .
.It Fl Q
Specify the quality of the measurement.
The default quality when none is specified is best.
The following quality levels are supported:
.Dq good ,
.Dq better ,
and
.Dq best .
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm report-phyeye
.Fl f Ar file
.Op Fl l Ar lane
.Op Fl e Ar eye
.Op Fl m Ar mode
.Xc
Report the printable eye data or the vendor-specific eye data from a
physical eye measurement contained in
.Ar file .
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f Ar file
Read the physical eye measurement contents from
.Ar file .
This should be gathered with the
.Cm measure-phyeye
command.
.It Fl l Ar lane
Limit information printed to the specified PCIe device lane.
PCIe lanes are numbered starting at 0.
Most NVMe devices only have 4 lanes.
.It Fl e Ar eye
Limit information printed to the specified device eye.
The number of eyes present generally depends on the PCIe speed of the
device.
There will only be a single eye for PCIe devices running at Gen 5 or below.
PCIe Gen 6 and higher devices should have 3 eyes due to the use of PAM4
encoding.
.It Fl m Ar mode
Selects the type of data that will be printed, defaulting to print-eye
if not specified.
Valid modes are:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy eye-data
Print the optional, vendor-specific eye-data.
This will generally be printed as a hexadecimal dump unless
vendor-specific knowledge of how to decode it is present.
.It Sy print-eye
Print the optional, ASCII printable eye.
A 0 in the printable eye indicates that the position is on or inside of
the eye.
A 1 in the printable eye indicates that the position is outside of the
eye.
This cannot be translated into specific values without vendor-specific
information.
.El
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm vendor-cmd
.Fl O Ar opcode
.Op Fl n Ar nsid
.Op Fl -cdw12 Ar cdw12
.Op Fl -cdw13 Ar cdw13
.Op Fl -cdw14 Ar cdw14
.Op Fl -cdw15 Ar cdw15
.Op Fl l Ar length Op Fl i Ar file | Fl o Ar file
.Op Fl L Ar lock
.Op Fl I Ar impact Ns Op , Ns Ar ...
.Op Fl t Ar timeout
.Ar ctl[/ns]
.Xc
This allows an administrator to send a vendor-specific command to a
device that supports the NVMe standard vendor specific command format.
Vendor-specific commands must be used carefully.
While the system attempts to first class many commands so that way we
can ensure that anything that causes confusion to the device is well
understood, this cannot be done for arbitrary commands.
It is the user's responsibility to understand if this can cause the
controller to lose data, interact poorly with the kernel leading to the
driver being out of sync with reality, or worse.
The only required argument for this is an operation code which must be in the
vendor-specific region.
.Pp
The command may be run against either a controller or a namespace.
When a namespace is specified, its namespace id is included in the
command.
.Pp
A command may optionally request that data be sent to the controller as
an input to the command
.Pq Fl i ,
or returned by the controller as an output from the command
.Pq Fl o .
There is no support in the standard protocol for both an arbitrary sized
data input and output.
The length of the input is specified by the
.Fl l
flag, which indicates a size in bytes that must be a multiple of 4
.Po
commands operate in units of
.Vt uint32_t
.Pc .
Data is either read from or output to a file.
The maximum input or output data size provided by the system is 16 MiB.
.Pp
When the command completes, it will print out the results of the command and the
value of the completion command dword 0.
.Pp
The following arguments are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl O , -opcode Ar opcode
Sets the numeric operation code that should be used for the command.
This option is required.
Valid values are in the range [0xc0, 0xff].
.It Fl n , --nsid Ar nsid
Sets the namespace identifier to send in the command to
.Ar nsid .
If the command is specified against a namespace specifically, then this
argument is not required.
If the
.Ar nsid
argument is specified and a namespace is specified as the target, they
must agree otherwise it is an error.
.Pp
If no namespace ID is specified, this field will be set to 0 in the command.
.It Fl -cdw12 , Fl 2 Ar cdw12
Sets the 32-bit value of command dword 12 to the value
.Ar cdw12 .
Whether or not this is required is command specific.
.Pp
If no value is specified, this field will be set to 0 in the command.
.It Fl -cdw13 , Fl 3 Ar cdw13
Sets the 32-bit value of command dword 13 to the value
.Ar cdw13 .
Whether or not this is required is command specific.
.Pp
If no value is specified, this field will be set to 0 in the command.
.It Fl -cdw14 , Fl 4 Ar cdw14
Sets the 32-bit value of command dword 14 to the value
.Ar cdw14 .
Whether or not this is required is command specific.
.Pp
If no value is specified, this field will be set to 0 in the command.
.It Fl -cdw15 , Fl 5 Ar cdw15
Sets the 32-bit value of command dword 15 to the value
.Ar cdw15 .
Whether or not this is required is command specific.
.Pp
If no value is specified, this field will be set to 0 in the command.
.It Fl l , -length Ar length
Indicates the length in bytes of the desired input or output for the
command.
The length must be 4-byte aligned.
If this is specified, one of
.Fl i
or
.Fl o
must be specified to indicate the direction of the data transfer and the
source or destination of the data.
.It Fl i , -input Ar file
Read the input to the command from
.Ar file .
Requires that
.Fl l
is specified.
If the input file,
.Ar file ,
is shorter than the length specified with
.Fl l ,
then the remaining data will be filled with 0s.
.It Fl o , -output Ar file
Write controller output to
.Ar file .
Requires that
.Fl l
is specified.
.It Fl L , --lock Ar lock
Allows for a read or write lock on the controller
.Pq or namespace
to be taken for the duration of the command.
The following values are supported for
.Ar lock :
.Bl -tag -width write
.It Sy read
Takes a read lock on the controller
Pq or namespace .
I/O will still continue during this time.
This prevents other operations from modifying the state of the
controller or namespace such as performing a format, firmware update,
etc.
.It Sy write
Takes an exclusive write lock on the controller.
I/O will still continue during this; however, no other administrative
actions will be allowed during this time including read-only commands.
.El
.It Fl I , -impact Ar impact Ns Op , Ns Ar ...
A comma-separated list of values that describe to the system the impact
of running this command on the system.
By default, no impact to the system is assumed.
The following values are accepted:
.Bl -tag -width namespace
.It Sy data
Indicates that the data on the controller or namespace may be lost as a
result of running this command.
.It Sy namespace
Indicates that namespaces and their attributes may be modified as a
result of running this command.
.El
.It Fl t , -timeout Ar timeout
All administrative commands are monitored by the system to ensure that
they complete in a timely fashion.
By default a 60 second timeout is applied to all administrative
commands.
This may be overridden by specifying a new
.Ar timeout
value which will be interpreted in seconds.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm sandisk/hwrev
.Ar ctl
.Xc
This vendor-specific command prints the device hardware revision.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm sandisk/pci-eye
.Fl l Ar lane
.Fl o Ar output
.Ar ctl
.Xc
This vendor-specific command obtains a PCIe eye diagram for the hardware
lane specified by
.Ar lane
on the NVMe device
.Ar ctl .
The PCIe lane will generally be between 0 and 3, though it is possible
fewer lanes will be available depending on the drive bay and system
board design.
The information will be output to the file
.Ar output .
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm wdc/e6dump
.Fl o Ar output
.Ar ctl
.Xc
This vendor-specific command performs a diagnostic dump of device data
to the file specified by
.Ar output .
The device remains in full service while this is occurring.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Cm wdc/resize
.Fl s Ar size | Fl g
.Ar ctl
.Xc
This vendor-specific command will get the current over provisioning size
or set it.
This command operates using power of 10 bytes, that is in terms of
gigabytes and not gibibytes.
The sizes that are used here will be different from those that the
operating system will report for the drive.
.Pp
The following options are supported:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl g
Returns the current size of the device in gigabytes
.Pq powers of 10 .
.It Fl s Ar size
Sets the size of the device to
.Ar size
which is in gigabytes
.Pq powers of 10 .
This can be used to adjust the over provisioning ratio on the device.
The valid points are device-specific.
Please consult WDC datasheets for more information.
.Pp
When performing a resize
.Em all data and namespace will be erased !
All namespaces must be detached prior to issuing this.
.El
.It Xo
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm wdc/clear-assert
.Ar ctl
.Xc
This clears an internal assertion record from a WDC device.
Prior to running this any such internal assertion should be saved by using the
.Cm wdc/e6dump
command.
This command should only be used if instructed to do so as part of a
troubleshooting process.
.It Xo
.Nm
.Op Fl dv
.Cm wdc/inject-assert
.Ar ctl
.Xc
This injects a device assertion into a WDC NVMe device.
The behavior of doing so is device specific; however, all I/O will be
interrupted and the device may be retired.
Unless explicitly instructed as part of debugging a device or as part of
internal development, this command should not be used.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width ""
.It Sy Example 1: List all NVMe controllers and namespaces
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm list
nvme1: model: INTEL SSDPEDMD800G4, serial: CVFT4134001R800CGN, FW rev: 8DV10049, NVMe v1.0
  nvme1/1 (c1t1d0): Size = 763097 MB, Capacity = 763097 MB, Used = 763097 MB
nvme4: model: SAMSUNG MZVPV128HDGM-00000, serial: S1XVNYAGA00640, FW rev: BXW7300Q, NVMe v1.1
  nvme4/1 (c2t2d0): Size = 122104 MB, Capacity = 122104 MB, Used = 5127 MB
.Ed
.It Sy Example 2: Identify a namespace
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm identify nvme4/1
nvme4/1: Identify Namespace
  Namespace Capabilities and Features
    Namespace Size:                         122104MB
    Namespace Capacity:                     122104MB
    Namespace Utilization:                  5127MB
    Namespace Features
      Thin Provisioning:                    unsupported
    Number of LBA Formats:                  1
    Formatted LBA Size
      LBA Format:                           1
      Extended Data LBA:                    no
    Metadata Capabilities
      Extended Data LBA:                    unsupported
      Separate Metadata:                    unsupported
    End-to-End Data Protection Capabilities
      Protection Information Type 1:        unsupported
      Protection Information Type 2:        unsupported
      Protection Information Type 3:        unsupported
      Protection Information first:         unsupported
      Protection Information last:          unsupported
    End-to-End Data Protection Settings
      Protection Information:               disabled
      Protection Information in Metadata:   last 8 bytes
    LBA Format 1
      Metadata Size:                        0 bytes
      LBA Data Size:                        512 bytes
      Relative Performance:                 Best
.Ed
.It Sy Example 3: Get SMART/Health information (verbose)
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm -v get-logpage nvme4/1 health
nvme4/1: SMART/Health Information
  Critical Warnings
    Available Space:                        OK
    Temperature:                            OK
    Device Reliability:                     OK
    Media:                                  OK
    Volatile Memory Backup:                 OK
  Temperature:                              37C
  Available Spare Capacity:                 100%
  Available Spare Threshold:                10%
  Device Life Used:                         0%
  Data Read:                                0GB
  Data Written:                             64GB
  Read Commands:                            52907
  Write Commands:                           567874
  Controller Busy:                          1min
  Power Cycles:                             6
  Power On:                                 141h
  Unsafe Shutdowns:                         1
  Uncorrectable Media Errors:               0
  Errors Logged:                            1
.Ed
.It Sy Example 4: Get Asynchronous Event Configuration information
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm get-features nvme0,nvme4 event,power
nvme0: Get Features
  Asynchronous Event Configuration
    Available Space below threshold:        disabled
    Temperature above threshold:            disabled
    Device Reliability compromised:         disabled
    Media read-only:                        disabled
  Power Management
    Power State:                            0
nvme4: Get Features
  Asynchronous Event Configuration
    Available Space below threshold:        disabled
    Temperature above threshold:            disabled
    Device Reliability compromised:         disabled
    Media read-only:                        disabled
    Volatile Memory Backup failed:          disabled
  Power Management
    Power State:                            0
.Ed
.It Sy Example 5: Load and activate firmware
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm list-firmware nvme3
nvme3: Firmware Slot Information
  Active Firmware Slot:                     4
  Next Firmware Slot:                       4
  Firmware Revision for Slot 1:             KNGND110 (read-only)
  Firmware Revision for Slot 2:             KNGND110
  Firmware Revision for Slot 3:             KNGND110
  Firmware Revision for Slot 4:             KNGND112
  Firmware Revision for Slot 5:             KNGND110

# nvmeadm -v load-firmware nvme3 KNGND113.bin
1740544 bytes downloaded.

# nvmeadm -v commit-firmware nvme3 5
Firmware committed to slot 5.

# nvmeadm -v activate-firmware nvme3 5
Slot 5 activated: NVM subsystem reset required - power cycle your system.

# nvmeadm list-firmware nvme3
nvme3: Firmware Slot Information
  Active Firmware Slot:                     4
  Next Firmware Slot:                       5
  Firmware Revision for Slot 1:             KNGND110 (read-only)
  Firmware Revision for Slot 2:             KNGND110
  Firmware Revision for Slot 3:             KNGND110
  Firmware Revision for Slot 4:             KNGND112
  Firmware Revision for Slot 5:             KNGND113
.Ed
.It Sy Example 6: Listing Log Pages
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm list-logpages nvme8
DEVICE  NAME          SCOPE         FIELDS    DESC
nvme8   error         controller    rae       Error information
nvme8   health        controller,   rae       SMART / Health information
                      namespace
nvme8   firmware      nvm           --        Firmware Slot Information
nvme8   changens      controller    rae       changed namespaces
nvme8   wdc/eol       nvm           --        EOL
nvme8   wdc/devmgmt   controller,   --        Device Manageability
                      namespace
nvme8   wdc/pciesi    controller    lsp       PCIe Signal Integrity
nvme8   wdc/power     controller    --        Power Samples
nvme8   wdc/temp      controller    --        Temperature Samples
nvme8   wdc/fwact     controller    --        Firmware Activation
nvme8   wdc/ccds      controller    --        CCDS Build Information
# nvmeadm list-logpages -p -o name,impl nvme8 firmware
firmware:yes
.Ed
.It Sy Example 7: Using Log Page Filters
This example shows how to use filters to select data from a log page in
both human readable and parsable outputs.
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm print-logpage -f eye.out phyeye
EOM Header
  Log Identifier: 0x19
  EOM In Progress: completed (0x2)
  Header Size: 0x40
  Result Size: 0x1aa40
  EOM Data Generation Number: 0x7
  Log Revision: 0x1
  Optional Data Present: 0x3
    |--> Printable Eye Field Present: present (0x1)
    |--> Eye Data Field Present: present (0x1)
  Lanes: 0x4
  Eyes Per Lane: 0x1
  Log Specific Parameter Field Copy: 0x6
    |--> Printable Eye Field Present: 0x6
  Link Information: 0x4
    |--> Measurement Link Speed: 0x4
  Log Specific Identifier Copy: 0x0
  Descriptor Size: 0x6a80
  Number of Descriptors: 0x4
  Maximum Top Bottom: 0x100
  Maximum Left Right: 0x1a
  Estimated Time for Good Quality: 0x96
  Estimated Time for Better Quality: 0xf0
  Estimated Time for Best Quality: 0x168
EOM Lane Descriptor 0
  Measurement Status: 0x1
    |--> Measurement Successful: yes (0x1)
  Lane: 0x0
  Eye: 0x1
  Top: 0x38
  Bottom: 0x38
  Left: 0xb
  Right: 0xe
  Number of Rows: 0x200
  Number of Columns: 0x35
EOM Lane Descriptor 1
  Measurement Status: 0x1
    |--> Measurement Successful: yes (0x1)
  Lane: 0x1
  Eye: 0x1
  Top: 0x34
  Bottom: 0x30
  Left: 0xa
  Right: 0x10
  Number of Rows: 0x200
  Number of Columns: 0x35
EOM Lane Descriptor 2
  Measurement Status: 0x1
    |--> Measurement Successful: yes (0x1)
  Lane: 0x2
  Eye: 0x1
  Top: 0x30
  Bottom: 0x2c
  Left: 0xa
  Right: 0xf
  Number of Rows: 0x200
  Number of Columns: 0x35
EOM Lane Descriptor 3
  Measurement Status: 0x1
    |--> Measurement Successful: yes (0x1)
  Lane: 0x3
  Eye: 0x1
  Top: 0x38
  Bottom: 0x34
  Left: 0xb
  Right: 0xe
  Number of Rows: 0x200
  Number of Columns: 0x35
.Ed
.Pp
Filters can then be used to limit this output.
In human readable mode, a filter will include all of its parent headings
to make it clear where something is.
Additionally a filter that is not a leaf, matches all of its children.
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm print-logpage -f eye.out phyeye eom.odp eld2.ln
EOM Header
  Optional Data Present: 0x3
    |--> Printable Eye Field Present: present (0x1)
    |--> Eye Data Field Present: present (0x1)
EOM Lane Descriptor 2
  Lane: 0x2
.Ed
.Pp
In machine parsable mode, filters only match their exact value:
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm print-logpage -f eye.out -Hpo short,value phyeye eom.eomip
eom.eomip:0x2
.Ed
.It Sy Example 8: Gathering and Printing Eye Data
This example shows gathering a physical eye measurement from a device
and then printing the eye data from a single lane.
.Bd -literal
# nvmeadm measure-phyeye -o eye.out -Q best nvme9
device indicates a minimum 360 second wait for best quality phyeye measurement
360/360 seconds elapsed
phyeye successfully written to eye.out
# nvmeadm report-phyeye -f eye.out -m eye-data -l 3
Lane 3, Eye 1: Eye Data
      0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7   8  9  a  b  c  d  e  f   0123456789abcdef
00:  25 00 00 00 37 25 00 00  ff 00 00 00 38 53 00 00 | %...7%......8S..
10:  38 53 00 00 48 00 00 00  46 00 00 00 46 00 00 00 | 8S..H...F...F...
20:  42 00 00 00 42 00 00 00  eb 00 00 00 c7 00 00 00 | B...B...........
30:  0f 01 00 00 24 01 00 00  38 26 00 00 a0 00 00 00 | ....$...8&......
40:  e0 00 00 00 20 0d 00 00  20 0d 00 00 40 00 00 00 | .... ... ...@...
50:  05 11 00 00 5f 08 00 00  41 08 00 00 80 08 00 00 | ...._...A.......
.Ed
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
The command line interface of
.Nm
is
.Sy Evolving .
The output of
.Nm
is
.Sy Not-an-Interface
and may change any time.
.Pp
The short names used by various filters are
.Sy Committed .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nvme 4D
.Pp
.Lk http://www.nvmexpress.org/specifications/ "NVMe specifications"
