.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2019 Nexenta by DDN, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright 2021-2023 RackTop Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Aug 29, 2025
.Dt SMBADM 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smbadm
.Nd configure and manage SMB local groups and users, and manage domain
membership
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Cm create
.Op Fl d Ar description
.Ar group
.Nm
.Cm delete
.Ar group
.Nm
.Cm rename
.Ar group new-group
.Nm
.Cm show
.Op Fl mp
.Op Ar group
.Nm
.Cm get
.Oo Fl p Ar property Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Nm
.Cm set
.Fl p Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
.Oo Fl p Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Nm
.Cm add-member
.Fl m Ar member Oo Fl m Ar member Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Nm
.Cm remove-member
.Fl m Ar member Oo Fl m Ar member Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Nm
.Cm delete-user
.Ar username
.Nm
.Cm disable-user
.Ar username
.Nm
.Cm enable-user
.Ar username
.Nm
.Cm join
.Op Fl y
.Op Fl c Ar container
.Fl u Ar username
.Ar domain
.Nm
.Cm join
.Op Fl y
.Fl w Ar workgroup
.Nm
.Cm lookup
.Op Fl p
.Ar account-name Oo Ar account-name Oc Ns ...
.Nm
.Cm list
.Nm
.Cm list-domains
.Nm
.Cm list-sessions
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl o Ar field,...
.Nm
.Cm list-trees
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl o Ar field,...
.Nm
.Cm list-ofiles
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl o Ar field,...
.Nm
.Cm close-session
.Ar client_name
.Op Ar user_name
.Nm
.Cm close-ofile
.Ar file_ID
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command is used to configure SMB local groups and users, and to manage domain
membership.
You can also use the
.Nm
command to enable or disable SMB password generation for individual local users.
.Pp
SMB local groups can be used when Windows accounts must be members of some local
groups and when Windows style privileges must be granted.
System local groups cannot provide these functions.
.Pp
There are two types of local groups: user defined and built-in.
Built-in local groups are predefined local groups to support common
administration tasks.
.Pp
In order to provide proper identity mapping between SMB local groups and
system groups, a SMB local group must have a corresponding system group.
This requirement has two consequences: first, the group name must conform to the
intersection of the Windows and system group name rules.
Thus, a SMB local group name can be up to eight (8) characters long and contain
only lowercase characters and numbers.
Second, a system local group has to be created before a SMB local group can
be created.
.Pp
Built-in groups are standard Windows groups and are predefined by the SMB
service.
The built-in groups cannot be added, removed, or renamed, and these groups do
not follow the SMB local group naming conventions.
.Pp
When the SMB server is started, the following built-in groups are available:
.Bl -tag -width "Backup Operators"
.It Sy Administrators
Group members can administer the system.
.It Sy Backup Operators
Group members can bypass file access controls to back up and restore files.
.It Sy Power Users
Group members can share directories.
.El
.Pp
System local users must have an SMB password for authentication and to gain
access to SMB resources.
This password is created by using the
.Xr passwd 1
command when the
.Sy pam_smb_password
module is added to the system's PAM configuration.
See the
.Xr pam_smb_passwd 7
man page.
.Pp
The
.Cm disable-user
and
.Cm enable-user
subcommands control SMB password-generation for a specified local user.
When disabled, the user is prevented from connecting to the SMB service.
By default, SMB password-generation is enabled for all local users.
.Pp
To reenable a disabled user, you must use the
.Cm enable-user
subcommand and then reset the user's password by using the
.Nm passwd
command.
The
.Pa pam_smb_passwd.so.1
module must be added to the system's PAM configuration to generate an SMB
password.
.Ss Escaping Backslash Character
For the
.Cm add-member ,
.Cm remove-member ,
and
.Cm join
.Po with
.Fl u
.Pc
subcommands, the backslash character
.Pq Qq \e
is a valid separator between member or user names and domain names.
The backslash character is a shell special character and must be quoted.
For example, you might escape the backslash character with another backslash
character:
.Ar domain Ns \e\e Ns Ar username .
For more information about handling shell special characters, see the man page
for your shell.
.Sh OPERANDS
The
.Nm
command uses the following operands:
.Bl -tag -width "username"
.It Ar domain
Specifies the name of an existing Windows domain to join.
.It Ar group
Specifies the name of the SMB local group.
.It Ar username
Specifies the name of a system local user.
.El
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
The
.Nm
command includes these subcommands:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Xo
.Cm create
.Op Fl d Ar description
.Ar group
.Xc
Creates a SMB local group with the specified name.
You can optionally specify a description of the group by using the
.Fl d
option.
.It Xo
.Cm delete
.Ar group
.Xc
Deletes the specified SMB local group.
The built-in groups cannot be deleted.
.It Xo
.Cm rename
.Ar group new-group
.Xc
Renames the specified SMB local group.
The group must already exist.
The built-in groups cannot be renamed.
.It Xo
.Cm show
.Op Fl mps
.Op Ar group
.Xc
Shows information about the specified SMB local group or groups.
If no group is specified, information is shown for all groups.
If the
.Fl m
option is specified, the group members are also shown.
If the
.Fl p
option is specified, the group privileges are also shown.
If the
.Fl s
option is specified, group members are listed as SIDs instead of names.
.It Xo
.Cm get
.Oo Fl p Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Xc
Retrieves property values for the specified group.
If no property is specified, all property values are shown.
.It Xo
.Cm set
.Fl p Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
.Oo Fl p Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Xc
Sets configuration properties for a SMB local group.
The description and the privileges for the built-in groups cannot be changed.
.Pp
The
.Fl p Ar property Ns = Ns Ar value
option specifies the list of properties to be set on the specified group.
.Pp
The group-related properties are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm backup Ns = Ns Cm on Ns | Ns Cm off
Specifies whether members of the SMB local group can bypass file access controls
to back up file system objects.
.It Cm description Ns = Ns Ar description-text
Specifies a text description for the SMB local group.
.It Cm restore Ns = Ns Cm on Ns | Ns Cm off
Specifies whether members of the SMB local group can bypass file access controls
to restore file system objects.
.It Cm take-ownership Ns = Ns Cm on Ns | Ns Cm off
Specifies whether members of the SMB local group can take ownership of file
system objects.
.It Cm bypass-read Ns = Ns Cm on Ns | Ns Cm off
Specifies whether members of the SMB local group can always bypass Read access controls.
.It Cm bypass-write Ns = Ns Cm on Ns | Ns Cm off
Specifies whether members of the SMB local group can always bypass Write and Delete access controls.
.El
.It Xo
.Cm add-member
.Fl m Ar member Oo Fl m Ar member Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Xc
Adds the specified member to the specified SMB local group.
The
.Fl m Ar member
option specifies the name of a SMB local group member.
The member name must include an existing user name and an optional domain name.
.Pp
Specify the member name in either of the following formats:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[domain\e]username
[domain/]username
.Ed
.Pp
For example, a valid member name might be
.Sy sales\eterry
or
.Sy sales/terry ,
where
.Sy sales
is the Windows domain name and
.Sy terry
is the name of a user in the
.Sy sales
domain.
.It Xo
.Cm remove-member
.Fl m Ar member Oo Fl m Ar member Oc Ns ...
.Ar group
.Xc
Removes the specified member from the specified SMB local group.
The
.Fl m Ar member
option specifies the name of a SMB local group member.
The member name must include an existing user name and an optional domain name.
.Pp
Specify the member name in either of the following formats:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
[domain\e]username
[domain/]username
.Ed
.Pp
For example, a valid member name might be
.Sy sales\eterry
or
.Sy sales/terry ,
where
.Sy sales
is the Windows domain name and
.Sy terry
is the name of a user in the
.Sy sales
domain.
.It Xo
.Cm delete-user
.Ar username
.Xc
Deletes SMB password for the specified local user effectively preventing the
access by means of the SMB service.
Use
.Nm passwd
command to create the SMB password and re-enable access.
.It Xo
.Cm disable-user
.Ar username
.Xc
Disables SMB password-generation capabilities for the specified local user
effectively preventing access by means of the SMB service.
When a local user account is disabled, you cannot use the
.Nm passwd
command to modify the user's SMB password until the user account is re-enabled.
.It Xo
.Cm enable-user
.Ar username
.Xc
Enables SMB password-generation capabilities for the specified local user and
re-enables access.
After the password-generation capabilities are re-enabled, use the
.Nm passwd
command to generate the SMB password for the local user.
.Pp
The
.Nm passwd
command manages both the system password and SMB password for this user if the
.Pa pam_smb_passwd
module has been added to the system's PAM configuration.
.It Xo
.Cm join
.Op Fl y
.Op Fl c Ar container
.Fl u Ar username
.Ar domain
.Xc
Joins a Windows domain.
.Pp
An authenticated user account is required to join a domain, so you must specify
the Windows administrative user name with the
.Fl u
option.
If the password is not specified on the command line, the user is prompted for
it.
This user should be the domain administrator or any user who has administrative
privileges for the target domain.
.Pp
.Ar username
and
.Ar domain
can be entered in any of the following formats:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
username[+password] domain
domain\eusername[+password]
domain/username[+password]
username@domain
.Ed
.Pp
\&...where
.Ar domain
can be the NetBIOS or DNS domain name.
.Pp
The optional
.Ar container
string specifies the Relative Distinguished Name (RDN) of the
Active Directory Container in which the machine trust account
should be created.
If unspecified, the RDN used is:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
CN=Computers
.Ed
.Pp
If a machine trust account for the system already exists on a domain controller,
any authenticated user account can be used when joining the domain.
However, if the machine trust account does
.Em not
already exist, an account that has administrative privileges on the domain is
required to join the domain.
Specifying
.Fl y
will bypass the SMB service restart prompt.
.It Xo
.Cm join
.Op Fl y
.Fl w Ar workgroup
.Xc
Joins a Windows workgroup.
.Pp
The default mode for the SMB service is workgroup mode, which uses the default
workgroup name,
.Qq WORKGROUP .
.Pp
The
.Fl w Ar workgroup
option specifies the name of the workgroup to join when using the
.Cm join
subcommand.
Specifying
.Fl y
will bypass the SMB service restart prompt.
.It Xo
.Cm lookup
.Op Fl p
.Ar account-name Oo Ar account-name Oc Ns ...
.Xc
Lookup the SID for the given
.Ar account-name ,
or lookup the
.Ar account-name
for the given SID.
Specifying
.Fl p
will produce parsable output.
This subcommand is primarily for diagnostic use, to confirm whether the server
can lookup domain accounts and/or SIDs.
.It Xo
.Cm list
.Xc
Deprecated, alias for
.Cm list-domains .
.It Xo
.Cm list-domains
.Xc
Shows information about the current workgroup or domain.
The information typically includes the workgroup name or the primary domain
name.
When in domain mode, the information includes domain controller names and
trusted domain names.
.Pp
Each entry in the output is identified by one of the following tags:
.Bl -tag -width "[*]"
.It Sy [*]
Primary domain
.It Sy [.]
Local domain
.It Sy [-]
Other domains
.It Sy [+]
Selected domain controller
.El
.It Xo
.Cm list-sessions
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl o Ar field,...
.Xc
List SMB sessions (connections and logons).
Output may be customized using
.Fl o Ar field,...
where fields are: ID, DOMAIN, ACCT, USER, UID, COMPUTER, IP,
OS, LOGON, AGE, NOPEN, FLAGS.
If the
.Fl o
option is not specified, the default field list is:
IP,USER,NOPEN,AGE,FLAGS
.It Xo
.Cm list-trees
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl o Ar field,...
.Xc
List SMB "trees" (connected SMB shares).
Output may be customized using
.Fl o Ar field,...
where fields are: ID, TYPE, NOPEN, NUSER, TIME, AGE, USER, SHARE.
If the
.Fl o
option is not specified, the default field list is:
TYPE,SHARE,USER,NOPEN,AGE
Note that this does not list available shares.
For that, use:
.Cm sharemgr show -v -P smb
.It Xo
.Cm list-ofiles
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl o Ar field,...
.Xc
List SMB open files.
Output may be customized using
.Fl o Ar field,...
where fields are: ID, UNIQID, PERM, NLOCK, PATH, USER.
If the
.Fl o
option is not specified, the default field list is:
UNIQID,PATH,USER,NLOCK,PERM
.It Xo
.Cm close-session
.Ar computer
.Op Ar user
.Xc
Terminate session(s) connected from
.Ar computer ,
optionally filtered by
.Ar user .
The
.Ar computer
may be specified by either the "IP" or "COMPUTER" values from the columns
with those headings as shown by the
.Cm list-sessions
command.
(Usually those columns are the same.)
The
.Ar user
argument is optional, and if specified should be in
.Ar user@domain
format.
.It Xo
.Cm close-ofile
.Ar file_ID
.Xc
Close the SMB open file identified by
.Ar file_ID
(obtained from the UNIQID column of the
.Cm list-ofiles
output).
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
Utility name and options are
.Sy Uncommitted .
Utility output format is
.Sy Not-An-Interface .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr passwd 1 ,
.Xr smb 5 ,
.Xr smbautohome 5 ,
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr pam_smb_passwd 7 ,
.Xr smf 7 ,
.Xr groupadd 8 ,
.Xr idmap 8 ,
.Xr idmapd 8 ,
.Xr kclient 8 ,
.Xr share 8 ,
.Xr sharectl 8 ,
.Xr sharemgr 8 ,
.Xr smbd 8 ,
.Xr smbstat 8
