'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CPC_SET_CREATE 3CPC "Aug 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
cpc_set_create, cpc_set_destroy, cpc_set_add_request, cpc_walk_requests \-
manage sets of counter requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lcpc\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <libcpc.h>

\fBcpc_set_t *\fR\fBcpc_set_create\fR(\fBcpc_t *\fR\fIcpc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcpc_set_destroy\fR(\fBcpc_t *\fR\fIcpc\fR, \fBcpc_set_t *\fR\fIset\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBcpc_set_add_request\fR(\fBcpc_t *\fR\fIcpc\fR, \fBcpc_set_t *\fR\fIset\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIevent\fR, \fBuint64_t\fR \fIpreset\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBuint_t\fR \fInattrs\fR, \fBconst cpc_attr_t *\fR\fIattrs\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcpc_walk_requests\fR(\fBcpc_t *\fR\fIcpc\fR, \fBcpc_set_t *\fR\fIset\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg\fR,
     \fBvoid (*\fR\fIaction\fR)(void *\fIarg\fR, int \fIindex\fR, const char *\fIevent\fR,
     uint64_t \fIpreset\fR, uint_t \fIflags\fR, int \fInattrs\fR,
     const cpc_attr_t *\fIattrs\fR));
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcpc_set_create()\fR function returns an initialized and empty CPC set. A
CPC set contains some number of requests, where a request represents a specific
configuration of a hardware performance instrumentation counter present on the
processor. The \fBcpc_set_t\fR data structure is opaque and must not be
accessed directly by the application.
.sp
.LP
Applications wanting to program one or more performance counters must create an
empty set with \fBcpc_set_create()\fR and add requests to the set with
\fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR. Once all requests have been added to a set, the
set must be bound to the hardware performance counters (see
\fBcpc_bind_curlwp()\fR, \fBcpc_bind_pctx()\fR, and \fBcpc_bind_cpu()\fR, all
described on \fBcpc_bind_curlwp\fR(3CPC)) before counting events. At bind time,
the system attempts to match each request with an available physical counter
capable of counting the event specified in the request. If the bind is
successful, a 64-bit virtualized counter is created to store the counts
accumulated by the hardware counter. These counts are stored and managed in CPC
buffers separate from the CPC set whose requests are being counted. See
\fBcpc_buf_create\fR(3CPC) and \fBcpc_set_sample\fR(3CPC).
.sp
.LP
The \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR function specifies a configuration of a
hardware counter.  The arguments to \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A string containing the name of an event supported by the system's processor.
The \fBcpc_walk_events_all()\fR and \fBcpc_walk_events_pic()\fR functions (both
described on \fBcpc_npic\fR(3CPC)) can be used to query the processor for the
names of available events. Certain processors allow the use of raw event codes,
in which case a string representation of an event code in a form acceptable to
\fBstrtol\fR(3C) can be used as the \fIevent\fR argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpreset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The value with which the system initializes the counter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Three flags are defined that modify the behavior of the counter acting on
behalf of this request:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCPC_COUNT_USER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The counter should count events that occur while the processor is in user mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCPC_COUNT_SYSTEM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The counter should count events that occur while the processor is in privileged
mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCPC_OVF_NOTIFY_EMT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Request a signal to be sent to the application when the physical counter
overflows. A \fBSIGEMT\fR signal is delivered if the processor is capable of
delivering an interrupt when the counter counts past its maximum value. All
requests in the set containing the counter that overflowed are stopped until
the set is rebound.
.RE

At least one of \fBCPC_COUNT_USER\fR or \fBCPC_COUNT_SYSTEM\fR must be
specified to program the hardware for counting.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInattrs\fR, \fIattrs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The \fInattrs\fR argument specifies the number of attributes pointed to by the
\fIattrs\fR argument, which is an array of \fBcpc_attr_t\fR structures
containing processor-specific attributes that modify the request's
configuration. The \fBcpc_walk_attrs()\fR function (see \fBcpc_npic\fR(3CPC))
can be used to query the processor for the list of attributes it accepts. The
library makes a private copy of the \fIattrs\fR array, allowing the application
to dispose of it immediately after calling \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBcpc_walk_requests()\fR function calls the action function on each
request that has been added to the set. The \fIarg\fR argument is passed
unmodified to the \fIaction\fR function with each call.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBcpc_set_create()\fR returns a handle to the
opaque \fBcpc_set_t\fR data structure. Otherwise, NULL is returned and
\fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBCpc_set_destroy()\fR returns 0. Otherwise, -1 is
returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR returns an integer
index used to refer to the data generated by that request during data
retrieval. Otherwise, -1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the
error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An event, attribute, or flag passed to \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR was invalid.
.sp
For \fBcpc_set_destroy()\fR and \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR, the set parameter
was not created with the given cpc_t.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
There was not enough memory available to the process to create the library's
data structures.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpc_bind_curlwp\fR(3CPC), \fBcpc_buf_create\fR(3CPC), \fBcpc_npic\fR(3CPC),
\fBcpc_seterrhndlr\fR(3CPC), \fBlibcpc\fR(3LIB), \fBstrtol\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The system automatically determines which particular physical counter to use to
count the events specified by each request. Applications can force the system
to use a particular counter by specifying the counter number in an attribute
named \fIpicnum\fR that is passed to \fBcpc_set_add_request()\fR. Counters are
numbered from 0 to \fIn\fR - 1, where n is the number of counters in the
processor as returned by \fBcpc_npic\fR(3CPC).
.sp
.LP
Some processors, such as UltraSPARC, do not allow the hardware counters to be
programmed differently. In this case, all requests in the set must have the
same configuration, or an attempt to bind the set will return \fBEINVAL\fR. If
a \fBcpc_errhndlr_t\fR has been registered with \fBcpc_seterrhndlr\fR(3CPC),
the error handler is called with subcode \fBCPC_CONFLICTING_REQS\fR. For
example, on UltraSPARC \fBpic0\fR and \fBpic1\fR must both program events in
the same processor mode (user mode, kernel mode, or both). For example,
\fBpic0\fR cannot be programmed with \fBCPC_COUNT_USER\fR while \fBpic1\fR is
programmed with \fBCPC_COUNT_SYSTEM\fR. Refer to the hardware documentation
referenced by \fBcpc_cpuref\fR(3CPC) for details about a particular processor's
performance instrumentation hardware.
