'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH BP_COPYIN 9F "Oct 16, 2007"
.SH NAME
bp_copyin \- copy from a buf(9S) into a driver buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/buf.h>




\fBint\fR \fBbp_copyin\fR(\fBstruct buf *\fR\fIbp\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIdriverbuf\fR, \fBoffset_t\fR \fIoffset\fR,
     \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIbp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to the buffer header structure to copy from.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdriverbuf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Driver buffer to copy to.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoffset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Offset into \fIbp\fR where to start copying.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Size of copy.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBbp_copyin()\fR function copies \fIsize\fR bytes into the memory
associated with \fIbp\fR to the destination driver buffer \fIdriverbuf\fR. The
\fIoffset\fR only applies to \fIbp\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Under normal conditions, 0 is returned to indicate a successful copy.
Otherwise, -1 is returned if \fIbp\fR references invalid pages.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBbp_copyin()\fR function can be called from user or kernel context only.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBbp_copyout\fR(9F), \fBbp_mapin\fR(9F), \fBbp_mapout\fR(9F),
\fBddi_copyout\fR(9F), \fBbuf\fR(9S)
