'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH csx_Parse_CISTPL_VERS_1 9F "20 Dec 1996" "SunOS 5.11" "Kernel Functions for Drivers"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_VERS_1 \- parse Level-1 Version/Product Information tuple
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_VERS_1\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR, 
     \fBcistpl_vers_1_t *\fR\fIcv1\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fItu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Pointer to a \fBtuple_t\fR structure (see \fBtuple\fR(9S)) returned by a call
to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIcv1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
.rt  
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_vers_1_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_VERS_1\fR tuple information upon return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Level-1 Version/Product Information tuple,
\fBCISTPL_VERS_1,\fR into a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard drivers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_VERS_1\fR tuple is used to describe the card Level-1 version
compliance and card manufacturer information.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_vers_1_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t   major;  /* major version number */
uint32_t   minor;  /* minor version number */
uint32_t   ns;     /* number of information strings */
char       pi[CISTPL_VERS_1_MAX_PROD_STRINGS] 
               [CIS_MAX_TUPLE_DATA_LEN];
                   /* pointers to product information strings */
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CIS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on \fBPC \fRCard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
.rt  
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetTupleData\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F), \fBcsx_ValidateCIS\fR(9F), \fBtuple\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard,\fR PCMCIA/JEIDA
