'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_PARSE_CISTPL_BATTERY 9F "Dec 20, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_BATTERY \- parse the Battery Replacement Date tuple
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_BATTERY\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_battery_t *\fR\fIcb\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to a \fBtuple_t\fR structure (see \fBtuple\fR(9S)) returned by a call
to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcb\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_battery_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_BATTERY\fR tuple information upon return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Battery Replacement Date tuple, \fBCISTPL_BATTERY,\fR
into a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard drivers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_BATTERY\fR tuple is an optional tuple which shall be present only
in \fBPC \fRCards with battery-backed storage. It indicates the date on which
the battery was replaced, and the date on which the battery is expected to need
replacement. Only one \fBCISTPL_BATTERY\fR tuple is allowed per \fBPC \fRCard.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_battery_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     rday;     /* date battery last replaced */
uint32_t     xday;     /* date battery due for replacement */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrday\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
This field indicates the date on which the battery was last replaced.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxday\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
This field indicates the date on which the battery should be replaced.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CIS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on \fBPC \fRCard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetTupleData\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F), \fBcsx_ValidateCIS\fR(9F), \fBtuple\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR
