'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_PARSE_CISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC 9F "Jan 24, 1997"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC \- parse the Multi-Function tuple
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_longlink_mfc_t *\fR\fIpt\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIch\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItu\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Pointer to a \fBtuple_t\fR structure (see \fBtuple\fR(9S)) returned by a call
to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpt\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_longlink_mfc_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC\fR tuple information upon return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Multi-Function tuple, \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC,\fR into
a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard drivers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC\fR tuple describes the start of the
function-specific \fBCIS \fRfor each function on a multi-function card.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_longlink_mfc_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t    nfuncs;
uint32_t    nregs;
uint32_t    function[CIS_MAX_FUNCTIONS].tas
uint32_t    function[CIS_MAX_FUNCTIONS].addr
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnfuncs\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This field indicates the number of functions on the \fBPC \fRcard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnregs\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This field indicates the number of configuration register sets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfunction[CIS_MAX_FUNCTIONS].tas\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This field provides the target address space for each function on the \fBPC
\fRcard. This field can be one of:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC_TAS_AM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
CIS in attribute memory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_MFC_TAS_CM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
CIS in common memory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfunction[CIS_MAX_FUNCTIONS].addr\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This field provides the target address offset for each function on the \fBPC
\fRcard.
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CIS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on \fBPC \fRCard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetTupleData\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F), \fBcsx_ValidateCIS\fR(9F), \fBtuple\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard,\fR PCMCIA/JEIDA
