'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_MAPMEMPAGE 9F "Jul 19, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_MapMemPage \- map the memory area on a PC Card
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_MapMemPage\fR(\fBwindow_handle_t\fR \fIwh\fR, \fBmap_mem_page_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIwh\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Window handle returned from \fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Pointer to a \fBmap_mem_page_t\fR structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function maps the memory area on a \fBPC \fRCard into a page of a window
allocated with the \fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F) function.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBmap_mem_page_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     CardOffset;       /* card offset */
uint32_t     Page;             /* page number */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCardOffset\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The absolute offset in bytes from the beginning of the \fBPC \fRCard to map
into system memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPage\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Used internally by Card Services; clients must set this field to \fB0\fR before
calling this function.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_OFFSET\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Offset is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_PAGE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Page is not zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_ModifyWindow\fR(9F), \fBcsx_ReleaseWindow\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR
