'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_REPGET8 9F "Jul 19, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_RepGet8, csx_RepGet16, csx_RepGet32, csx_RepGet64 \- read repetitively from
the device register
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_RepGet8\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint8_t *\fR\fIhostaddr\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_RepGet16\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint16_t *\fR\fIhostaddr\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_RepGet32\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t *\fR\fIhostaddr\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBcsx_RepGet64\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint64_t *\fR\fIhostaddr\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIoffset\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI\fR Specific (Solaris \fBDDI\fR)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The access handle returned from \fBcsx_RequestIO\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F), or \fBcsx_DupHandle\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhostaddr\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Source host address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoffset\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The offset in bytes from the base of the mapped resource.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrepcount\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Number of data accesses to perform.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Device address flags.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions generate multiple reads of various sizes from the mapped memory
or device register.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcsx_RepGet8()\fR, \fBcsx_RepGet16()\fR, \fBcsx_RepGet32()\fR, and
\fBcsx_RepGet64()\fR functions generate \fIrepcount\fR reads of 8 bits, 16
bits, 32 bits, and 64 bits of data, respectively, from the device address
represented by the handle, \fIhandle\fR, at an offset in bytes represented by
the offset, \fIoffset\fR. The data read is stored consecutively into the buffer
pointed to by the host address pointer, \fIhostaddr\fR.
.sp
.LP
Data that consists of more than one byte will automatically be translated to
maintain a consistent view between the host and the device based on the encoded
information in the data access handle. The translation may involve byte
swapping if the host and the device have incompatible endian characteristics.
.sp
.LP
When the \fIflags\fR argument is set to \fBCS_DEV_AUTOINCR\fR, these functions
increment the  device offset, \fIoffset\fR, after each datum read operation.
However, when the \fIflags\fR argument is set to \fBCS_DEV_NO_AUTOINCR\fR, the
same device offset will be used for every datum access. For example, this flag
may be useful when reading from a data register.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user, kernel, or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_DupHandle\fR(9F), \fBcsx_Get8\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetMappedAddr\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_Put8\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RepPut8\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RequestIO\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard\fR, PCMCIA/JEIDA
