'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_PARSE_CISTPL_DEVICE 9F "Dec 20, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE, csx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_A, csx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_OC,
csx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_OA \- parse Device Information tuples
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_device_t *\fR\fIcd\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_A\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_device_t *\fR\fIcd\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_OC\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_device_t *\fR\fIcd\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_OA\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_device_t *\fR\fIcd\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to a \fBtuple_t\fR structure (see \fBtuple\fR(9S)) returned by a call
to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_device_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE,\fR \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_A,\fR \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC,\fR or
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OA\fR tuple information upon return from these functions,
respectively.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE()\fR and \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_A()\fR parse the
5 volt Device Information tuples, \fBCISTPL_DEVICE\fR and
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_A,\fR respectively, into a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard
drivers.
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_OC()\fR and \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_DEVICE_OA()\fR parse
the Other Condition Device Information tuples, \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC\fR and
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OA,\fR respectively, into a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard
drivers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_DEVICE\fR and \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_A\fR tuples are used to describe
the card's device information, such as device speed, device size, device type,
and address space layout information for Common Memory or Attribute Memory
space, respectively.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC\fR and \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OA\fR tuples are used to
describe the information about the card's device under a set of operating
conditions for Common Memory or Attribute Memory space, respectively.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_device_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t               num_devices;    /* number of devices found */
cistpl_device_node_t   devnode[CISTPL_DEVICE_MAX_DEVICES];
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_device_node_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     flags;             /* flags specific to this device */
uint32_t     speed;             /* device speed in device
                                /*  speed code format */
uint32_t     nS_speed;          /* device speed in nS */
uint32_t     type;              /* device type */
uint32_t     size;              /* device size */
uint32_t     size_in_bytes;     /* device size in bytes */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
This field indicates whether or not the device is writable, and describes a
\fBVcc\fR voltage at which the \fBPC \fRCard can be operated.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_WPS\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Write Protect Switch bit is set
.RE

Bits which are applicable only for \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC\fR and
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OA\fR are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC_MWAIT\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Use MWAIT
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC_Vcc_MASK\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Mask for \fBVcc\fR value
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC_Vcc5\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
5.0 volt operation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC_Vcc33\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
3.3 volt operation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC_VccXX\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
X.X volt operation
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_OC_VccYY\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Y.Y volt operation
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBspeed\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The device speed value described in the device speed code unit. If this field
is set to \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_SPEED_SIZE_IGNORE,\fR then the speed information
will be ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnS_speed\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The device speed value described in nanosecond units.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The device size value described in the device size code unit. If this field is
set to \fBCISTPL_DEVICE_SPEED_SIZE_IGNORE,\fR then the size information will be
ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsize_in_bytes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The device size value described in byte units.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This is the device type code field which is defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_NULL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
No device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_ROM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Masked ROM
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_OTPROM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
One Time Programmable ROM
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_EPROM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
UV EPROM
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_EEPROM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
EEPROM
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_FLASH\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
FLASH
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_SRAM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Static RAM
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_DRAM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Dynamic RAM
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_FUNCSPEC\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Function-specific memory address range
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCISTPL_DEVICE_DTYPE_EXTEND\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Extended type follows
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CIS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on \fBPC \fRCard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetTupleData\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_JEDEC_C\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_ValidateCIS\fR(9F), \fBtuple\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR
