'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_PARSE_CISTPL_FUNCID 9F "Dec 20, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_FUNCID \- parse Function Identification tuple
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_FUNCID\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_funcid_t *\fR\fIcf\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to a \fBtuple_t\fR structure (see \fBtuple\fR(9S)) returned by a call
to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_funcid_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_FUNCID\fR tuple information upon return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Function Identification tuple, \fBCISTPL_FUNCID,\fR
into a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard drivers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_FUNCID\fR tuple is used to describe information about the
functionality provided by a \fBPC \fRCard. Information is also provided to
enable system utilities to decide if the \fBPC \fRCard should be configured
during system initialization. If additional function specific information is
available, one or more function extension tuples of type \fBCISTPL_FUNCE\fR
follow this tuple (see \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_FUNCE\fR(9F)).
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_funcid_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t     function;     /* PC Card function code */
uint32_t     sysinit;      /* system initialization mask */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfunction\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
This is the function type for \fBCISTPL_FUNCID:\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_MULTI\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Vendor-specific multifunction card
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_MEMORY\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Memory card
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_SERIAL\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Serial I/O port
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_PARALLEL\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Parallel printer port
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_FIXED\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Fixed disk, silicon or removable
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_VIDEO\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Video interface
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_LAN\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Local Area Network adapter
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_AIMS\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Auto Incrementing Mass Storage
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_SCSI\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
SCSI bridge
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_SECURITY\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Security cards
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_VENDOR_SPECIFIC\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Vendor specific
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLFUNC_UNKNOWN\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Unknown function(s)
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsysinit\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
This field is bit-mapped and defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLINIT_POST\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
POST should attempt configure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBTPLINIT_ROM\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Map ROM during sys init
.RE

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CIS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on \fBPC \fRCard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetTupleData\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_FUNCE\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_ValidateCIS\fR(9F), \fBtuple\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR
