'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_PARSE_CISTPL_LONGLINK_A 9F "Jan 24, 1997"
.SH NAME
csx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_A, csx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_C \- parse the Long Link
A and C tuples
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_A\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_longlink_ac_t *\fR\fIpt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_Parse_CISTPL_LONGLINK_C\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBtuple_t *\fR\fItu\fR,
     \fBcistpl_longlink_ac_t *\fR\fIpt\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIch\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItu\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Pointer to a \fBtuple_t\fR structure (see \fBtuple\fR(9S)) returned by a call
to \fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F) or \fBcsx_GetNextTuple\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpt\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Pointer to a \fBcistpl_longlink_ac_t\fR structure which contains the parsed
\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_A\fR or \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_C\fR tuple information upon
return from this function.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function parses the Long Link A and C tuples, \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_A\fR and
\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_A,\fR into a form usable by \fBPC \fRCard drivers.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_A\fR and \fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_C\fR tuples provide links to
Attribute and Common Memory.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBcistpl_longlink_ac_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t   flags;
uint32_t   tpll_addr;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBflags\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
This field indicates the type of memory:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_AC_AM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
long link to Attribute Memory
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCISTPL_LONGLINK_AC_CM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
long link to Common Memory
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtpll_addr\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
This field provides the offset from the beginning of the specified address
space.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Client handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNKNOWN_TUPLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Parser does not know how to parse tuple.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPC \fRCard in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CIS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No Card Information Structure (CIS) on \fBPC \fRCard.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_GetFirstTuple\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetTupleData\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F), \fBcsx_ValidateCIS\fR(9F), \fBtuple\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard,\fR PCMCIA/JEIDA
