'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_DUPHANDLE 9F "Jul 19, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_DupHandle \- duplicate access handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_DupHandle\fR(\fBacc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle1\fR, \fBacc_handle_t *\fR\fIhandle2\fR,
     \fBuint32_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI \fRSpecific (Solaris \fBDDI) \fR
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle1\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The access handle returned from \fBcsx_RequestIO\fR(9F) or
\fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F) that is to be duplicated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle2\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A pointer to the newly-created duplicated data access handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The access attributes that will be applied to the new handle.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function duplicates the handle, \fIhandle1\fR, into a new handle,
\fIhandle2\fR, that has the access attributes specified in the \fIflags\fR
argument. Both the original handle and the new handle are active and can be
used with the common access functions.
.sp
.LP
Both handles must be explicitly freed when they are no longer necessary.
.sp
.LP
The \fIflags\fR argument is bit-mapped. The following bits are defined:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
WIN_ACC_NEVER_SWAP       Host endian byte ordering
WIN_ACC_BIG_ENDIAN       Big endian byte ordering
WIN_ACC_LITTLE_ENDIAN    Little endian byte ordering
WIN_ACC_STRICT_ORDER     Program ordering references
WIN_ACC_UNORDERED_OK     May re-order references
WIN_ACC_MERGING_OK       Merge stores to consecutive locations
WIN_ACC_LOADCACHING_OK   May cache load operations
WIN_ACC_STORECACHING_OK  May cache store operations
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBWIN_ACC_BIG_ENDIAN\fR and \fBWIN_ACC_LITTLE_ENDIAN\fR describe the endian
characteristics of the device as big endian or little endian, respectively.
Even though most of the devices will have the same endian characteristics as
their busses, there are examples of devices with an \fBI/O \fRprocessor that
has opposite endian characteristics of the busses. When
\fBWIN_ACC_BIG_ENDIAN\fR or \fBWIN_ACC_LITTLE_ENDIAN\fR is  set, byte swapping
will automatically be performed by the system if the host machine and the
device data formats have opposite endian characteristics. The implementation
may take advantage of hardware platform byte swapping capabilities.  When
\fBWIN_ACC_NEVER_SWAP\fR is specified, byte swapping will not be invoked in the
data access functions. The ability to specify the order in which the \fBCPU
\fRwill reference data is provided by the following \fIflags\fR bits. Only one
of the following bits may be specified:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWIN_ACC_STRICT_ORDER\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The data references must be issued by a \fBCPU \fRin program order. Strict
ordering is the default behavior.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWIN_ACC_UNORDERED_OK\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The \fBCPU \fRmay re-order the data  references. This includes all kinds of
re-ordering (that is, a load followed by a store may be replaced by a store
followed by a load).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWIN_ACC_MERGING_OK\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The \fBCPU \fRmay merge individual stores to consecutive locations. For
example, the \fBCPU \fRmay turn two consecutive byte stores into one halfword
store. It may also batch individual loads. For example, the \fBCPU \fRmay turn
two consecutive byte loads into one halfword load. Setting this bit also
implies re-ordering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWIN_ACC_LOADCACHING_OK\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The \fBCPU \fRmay cache the data it fetches and reuse it until another store
occurs. The default behavior is to fetch new data on every load. Setting this
bit also implies merging and re-ordering.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBWIN_ACC_STORECACHING_OK\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
The \fBCPU \fRmay keep the data in the cache and push it to the device (perhaps
with other data) at a later time. The  default behavior is to push the data
right away. Setting this bit also implies load caching, merging, and
re-ordering.
.RE

.sp
.LP
These values are advisory, not mandatory. For example, data can be ordered
without being merged or cached, even though a driver requests unordered, merged
and cached together.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_FAILURE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Error in \fIflags\fR argument or handle could not be duplicated for some
reason.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPCMCIA \fRhardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_Get8\fR(9F), \fBcsx_GetMappedAddr\fR(9F), \fBcsx_Put8\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RepGet8\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RepPut8\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RequestIO\fR(9F),
\fBcsx_RequestWindow\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card 95 Standard, PCMCIA/JEIDA\fR
