'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CSX_REQUESTIRQ 9F "Jul 19, 1996"
.SH NAME
csx_RequestIRQ, csx_ReleaseIRQ \- request or release IRQ resource
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/pccard.h>



\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_RequestIRQ\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBirq_req_t *\fR\fIir\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint32_t\fR \fBcsx_ReleaseIRQ\fR(\fBclient_handle_t\fR \fIch\fR, \fBirq_req_t *\fR\fIir\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI\fR Specific (Solaris \fBDDI\fR)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIch\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Client handle returned from \fBcsx_RegisterClient\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIir\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 7n
Pointer to an \fBirq_req_t\fR structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The function \fBcsx_RequestIRQ()\fR requests an \fBIRQ\fR resource and
registers the client's \fBIRQ\fR handler with Card Services.
.sp
.LP
If a client requires an \fBIRQ\fR,\fBcsx_RequestIRQ()\fR must be called to
request an \fBIRQ\fR resource as well as to register the client's \fBIRQ\fR
handler with Card Services. The client will not receive callbacks at the
\fBIRQ\fR callback handler until \fBcsx_RequestConfiguration\fR(9F) or
\fBcsx_ModifyConfiguration\fR(9F) has successfully returned when either of
these functions are called with the \fBCONF_ENABLE_IRQ_STEERING\fR bit set.
.sp
.LP
The function \fBcsx_ReleaseIRQ()\fR releases a previously requested \fBIRQ\fR
resource.
.sp
.LP
The Card Services \fBIRQ\fR resource list is adjusted by
\fBcsx_ReleaseIRQ()\fR. Depending on the adapter hardware, the host bus
\fBIRQ\fR connection might also be disabled. Client \fBIRQ\fR handlers always
run above lock level and so should take care to perform only Solaris operations
that are appropriate for an above-lock-level \fBIRQ\fR handler.
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_RequestIRQ()\fR fails if it has already been called without a
corresponding \fBcsx_ReleaseIRQ()\fR.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.LP
The structure members of \fBirq_req_t\fR are:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
uint32_t                Socket;          /* socket number */
uint32_t                Attributes;      /* IRQ attribute flags */
csfunction_t            *irq_handler;    /* IRQ handler */
void                    *irq_handler_arg; /* IRQ handler argument */
ddi_iblock_cookie_t     *iblk_cookie;    /* IRQ interrupt
                                         /*   block cookie */
ddi_idevice_cookie_t    *idev_cookie;    /* IRQ interrupt device
                                         /*   cookie */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSocket\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Not used in Solaris, but for portability with other Card Services
implementations, it should be set to the logical socket number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBAttributes\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
This field is bit-mapped. It specifies details about the type of \fBIRQ\fR
desired by the client. The following bits are defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIRQ_TYPE_EXCLUSIVE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBIRQ\fR is exclusive to this socket. This bit must be set. It indicates that
the system IRQ is dedicated to this PC Card.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBirq_handler\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The client \fBIRQ\fR callback handler entry point is passed in the
\fBirq_handler\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBirq_handler_arg\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The client can use the \fBirq_handler_arg\fR field to pass client-specific data
to the client \fBIRQ\fR callback handler.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBiblk_cookie\fR \fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBidev_cookie\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
These fields must be used by the client to set up mutexes that are used in the
client's \fBIRQ\fR callback handler.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For a specific \fBcsx_ReleaseIRQ()\fR call, the values in the \fBirq_req_t\fR
structure must be the same as those returned from the previous
\fBcsx_RequestIRQ()\fR call; otherwise, \fBCS_BAD_ARGS\fR is returned and no
changes are made to Card Services resources or the socket and adapter hardware.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Successful operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_ARGS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
\fBIRQ\fR description does not match allocation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_ATTRIBUTE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
\fBIRQ_TYPE_EXCLUSIVE\fR not set, or an unsupported or reserved bit is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_HANDLE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Client handle is invalid or \fBcsx_RequestConfiguration\fR(9F) not done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_BAD_IRQ\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Unable to allocate \fBIRQ\fR resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_IN_USE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
\fBcsx_RequestIRQ()\fR already done or a previous \fBcsx_RequestIRQ()\fR has
not been done for a corresponding \fBcsx_ReleaseIRQ()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_CONFIGURATION_LOCKED\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
\fBcsx_RequestConfiguration\fR(9F) already done or
\fBcsx_ReleaseConfiguration\fR(9F) has not been done.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_NO_CARD\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPC\fR Card in socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBCS_UNSUPPORTED_FUNCTION\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
No \fBPCMCIA\fR hardware installed.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcsx_ReleaseConfiguration\fR(9F), \fBcsx_RequestConfiguration\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIPC Card Card 95 Standard\fR, PCMCIA/JEIDA
