'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_BINDING_NAME 9F "May 3, 1996"
.SH NAME
ddi_binding_name, ddi_get_name \- return driver binding name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBchar *\fR\fBddi_binding_name\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBddi_get_name\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 8n
A pointer to the device's \fBdev_info\fR structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_binding_name()\fR and \fBddi_get_name()\fR return the driver binding
name. This is the name used to select a driver for the device. This name is
typically derived from the device  \fBname\fR property or the device
\fBcompatible\fR property. The name returned may be a driver alias or the
driver name.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_binding_name()\fR and \fBddi_get_name()\fR return the name used to bind
a driver to a device.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_binding_name()\fR and \fBddi_get_name()\fR can be called from user,
kernel, or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_node_name\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The name returned by \fBddi_binding_name()\fR and \fBddi_get_name()\fR is
read-only.
