'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_DMA_DEVALIGN 9F "Apr 04, 2006"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_devalign \- find DMA mapping alignment and minimum transfer size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_devalign\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint_t *\fR\fIalignment\fR,
     \fBuint_t *\fR\fIminxfr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI). This interface is obsolete.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The DMA\fBhandle\fR filled in by a successful call to \fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIalignment\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A pointer to an unsigned integer to be filled in with the minimum required
alignment for \fBDMA\fR. The alignment is guaranteed to be a power of two.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIminxfr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A pointer to an unsigned integer to be filled in with the minimum effective
transfer size (see \fBddi_iomin\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_lim_sparc\fR(9S) and
\fBddi_dma_lim_x86\fR(9S)). This also is guaranteed to be a power of two.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_devalign()\fR Function determines after a successful \fBDMA\fR
mapping (see \fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F)) the minimum required data alignment and
minimum \fBDMA\fR transfer size.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_devalign()\fR function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The \fIalignment\fR and \fIminxfr\fR values have been filled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The handle was illegal.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_devalign()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F), \fBddi_iomin\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_lim_sparc\fR(9S),
\fBddi_dma_lim_x86\fR(9S), \fBddi_dma_req\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
