'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_IO_REP_PUT8 9F "Nov 1, 2005"
.SH NAME
ddi_io_rep_put8, ddi_io_rep_put16, ddi_io_rep_put32, ddi_io_rep_putb,
ddi_io_rep_putl, ddi_io_rep_putw \- write multiple data to the mapped device
register in I/O space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_io_rep_put8\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint8_t *\fR\fIhost_addr\fR,
     \fBuin8_t *\fR\fIdev_addr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_io_rep_put16\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint16_t *\fR\fIhost_addr\fR,
     \fBuin16_t *\fR\fIdev_addr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_io_rep_put32\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBuint32_t *\fR\fIhost_addr\fR,
     \fBuin32_t *\fR\fIdev_addr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIrepcount\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI). The \fBddi_io_rep_put8()\fR,
\fBddi_io_rep_put16()\fR, \fBddi_io_rep_put32()\fR, \fBddi_io_rep_putb()\fR,
\fBddi_io_rep_putl()\fR, and \fBddi_io_rep_putw()\fR functions are obsolete.
The \fBddi_rep_put8\fR(9F) function replaces \fBddi_io_rep_put8()\fR. The
\fBddi_rep_put16\fR(9F) function replaces \fBddi_io_rep_put16()\fR. The
\fBddi_rep_put32\fR(9F) function replaces \fBddi_io_rep_put32()\fR. The
\fBddi_rep_put8\fR(9F) function replaces \fBddi_io_rep_putb()\fR. The
\fBddi_rep_put32\fR(9F) function replaces \fBddi_io_rep_putl()\fR. The
\fBddi_rep_put16\fR(9F) function replaces \fBddi_io_rep_putw()\fR.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Data access handle returned from setup calls, such as
\fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhost_addr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Base host address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev_addr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Base device address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrepcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Number of data accesses to perform.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These routines generate multiple writes to the device address,
\fIdev_address\fR, in I/O space. \fIrepcount\fR data is copied from the host
address, \fIhost_addr\fR, to the device address, \fIdev_addr\fR. For each input
datum, the \fBddi_io_rep_put8()\fR, \fBddi_io_rep_put16()\fR, and
\fBddi_io_rep_put32()\fR functions write 8 bits, 16 bits, and 32 bits of data,
respectively, to the device address. \fIhost_addr\fR must be aligned to the
datum boundary described by the function.
.sp
.LP
Each individual datum will automatically be translated to maintain a consistent
view between the host and the device based on the encoded information in the
data access handle.  The translation may involve byte-swapping if the host and
the device have incompatible endian characteristics.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from user, kernel, or interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBisa\fR(4), \fBddi_io_get8\fR(9F), \fBddi_io_put8\fR(9F),
\fBddi_io_rep_get8\fR(9F), \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F),
\fBddi_rep_put8\fR(9F), \fBddi_rep_put16\fR(9F), \fBddi_rep_put32\fR(9F),
\fBddi_device_acc_attr\fR(9S)
