'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_DMA_BURSTSIZES 9F "May 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_burstsizes \- find out the allowed burst sizes for a DMA mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_burstsizes\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A \fBDMA\fR handle.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_dma_burstsizes()\fR returns the allowed burst sizes for a \fBDMA\fR
mapping. This value is derived from the \fBdma_attr_burstsizes\fR member of the
\fBddi_dma_attr\fR(9S) structure, but it shows the allowable burstsizes
\fBafter\fR imposing on it the limitations of other device layers in addition
to device's own limitations.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_dma_burstsizes()\fR returns a binary encoded value of the allowable
\fBDMA\fR burst sizes. See \fBddi_dma_attr\fR(9S) for a discussion of
\fBDMA\fR burst sizes.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user or interrupt context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_dma_alloc_handle\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_attr\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
