'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Nexenta Systems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_GET_TIME 9F "Apr 15, 2014"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_time \- returns the current time in seconds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBtime_t\fR \fBddi_get_time\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_get_time()\fR returns the current time in seconds since 00:00:00 UTC,
January 1, 1970. Changes in time of day clock may result in this value
changing. In other words, the value is not monotonically increasing and
therefore it must not be used to set wait or expiration intervals. For that,
instead use \fBddi_get_lbolt\fR(9F) or \fBgethrtime\fR(9F).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_get_time()\fR returns the time in seconds.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
 This routine can be called from any context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_get_lbolt\fR(9F), \fBdrv_getparm\fR(9F), \fBdrv_usectohz\fR(9F),
\fBgethrtime\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
 \fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
