'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_DMA_CURWIN 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_curwin \- report current DMA window offset and size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_curwin\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBoff_t *\fR\fIoffp\fR, \fBuint_t *\fR\fIlenp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
This interface is obsolete. \fBddi_dma_getwin\fR(9F) should be used instead.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The \fBDMA\fR handle filled in by a call to \fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoffp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A pointer to a value which will be filled in with the current offset from the
beginning of the object that is mapped for \fBDMA\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlenp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A pointer to a value which will be filled in with the size, in bytes, of the
current window onto the object that is mapped for \fBDMA\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_curwin()\fR function reports the current \fBDMA\fR window offset
and size. If a \fBDMA\fR mapping allows partial mapping, that is if the
\fBDDI_DMA_PARTIAL\fR flag in the \fBddi_dma_req\fR(9S) structure is set, its
current (effective) \fBDMA\fR window offset and size can be obtained by a call
to \fBddi_dma_curwin()\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_curwin()\fR function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The current length and offset can be established.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Otherwise.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_curwin()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability Level	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBddi_dma_getwin\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_movwin\fR(9F),
\fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_req\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
