.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH DDI_STRTOLL 9F "Feb 25, 2009"
.SH NAME
ddi_strtoll, ddi_strtoull \- string conversion functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBddi_strtoll\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstr\fR, \fBchar **\fR\fIendptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR,
     \fBlonglong_t *\fR\fIresult\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_strtoull\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstr\fR, \fBchar **\fR\fIendptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIbase\fR,
     \fBu_longlong_t *\fR\fIresult\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
pointer to a character string to be converted
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIendptr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
post-conversion final string of unrecognized characters
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIbase\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
radix used for conversion
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresult\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
pointer to variable which contains the converted value
.RE

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_strtoll()\fR function converts the initial portion of the string
pointed to by \fIstr\fR to a type \fBlonglong_t\fR representation and stores
the converted value in \fIresult\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_strtoull()\fR function converts the initial portion of the string
pointed to by \fIstr\fR to a type \fBu_longlong_t\fR representation and stores
the converted value in \fIresult\fR.
.sp
.LP
These functions first decomposes the input string into three parts:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
An initial (possibly empty) sequence of white-space characters (" ", "\et",
"\en", "\er", "\ef")
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
A subject sequence interpreted as an integer represented in some radix
determined by the value of base
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
A final string of one or more unrecognized characters, including the
terminating null byte of the input string.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_strtoll()\fR function then attempts to convert the subject sequence
to an integer and returns the result. The \fBddi_strtoull()\fR function
attempts to convert the subject sequence to an unsigned integer and returns the
result.
.sp
.LP
If the value of base is 0, the expected form of the subject sequence is that of
a decimal constant, octal constant or hexadecimal constant, any of which may be
preceded by a plus ("+") or minus ("-") sign. A decimal constant begins with a
non-zero digit, and consists of a sequence of decimal digits. An octal constant
consists of the prefix 0 optionally followed by a sequence of the digits 0 to 7
only. A hexadecimal constant consists of the prefix 0x or 0X followed by a
sequence of the decimal digits and letters a (or A) to f (or F) with values 10
to 15 respectively.
.sp
.LP
If the value of base is between 2 and 36, the expected form of the subject
sequence is a sequence of letters and digits representing an integer with the
radix specified by base, optionally preceded by a plus or minus sign. The
letters from a (or A) to z (or Z) inclusive are ascribed the values 10 to 35
and only letters whose ascribed values are less than that of base are
permitted. If the value of base is 16, the characters 0x or 0X may optionally
precede the sequence of letters and digits, following the sign if present.
.sp
.LP
The subject sequence is defined as the longest initial subsequence of the input
string, starting with the first non-white-space character that is of the
expected form. The subject sequence contains no characters if the input string
is empty or consists entirely of white-space characters, or if the first
non-white-space character is other than a sign or a permissible letter or
digit.
.sp
.LP
If the subject sequence has the expected form and the value of base is 0, the
sequence of characters starting with the first digit is interpreted as an
integer constant. If the subject sequence has the expected form and the value
of base is between 2 and 36, it is used as the base for conversion, ascribing
to each letter its value as given above. If the subject sequence begins with a
minus sign, the value resulting from the conversion is negated. A pointer to
the final string is stored in the object pointed to by \fIendptr\fR, provided
that \fIendptr\fR is not a null pointer.
.sp
.LP
If the subject sequence is empty or does not have the expected form, no
conversion is performed and the value of \fIstr\fR is stored in the object
pointed to by \fIendptr\fR, provided that \fIendptr\fR is not a null pointer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0 and store the converted
value in \fIresult\fR. If no conversion is performed due to an invalid base,
these functions return \fBEINVAL\fR and the variable pointed by \fIresult\fR is
not changed.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions may be called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
