'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_FM_SERVICE_IMPACT 9F "Mar 13, 2016"
.SH NAME
ddi_fm_service_impact \- report the impact of an error
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddifm.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_fm_service_impact\fR(\fBdev_info_t\fR *\fIdip\fR, \fBint\fR \fIimpact\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Pointer to the \fBdev_info\fR structure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIimpact\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Impact of error
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The following service impact values are accepted by
\fBddi_fm_service_impact()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SERVICE_LOST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The service provided by the device is unavailable due to an error. The
operational state of the device will transition to \fBDEVI_DEVICE_DOWN\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SERVICE_DEGRADED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The driver is unable to provide normal service, but it can provide a partial or
degraded level of service. The driver might have to make repeated attempts to
perform an operation before it succeeds, or it may be running at less than its
configured speed. A driver may use this value to indicate that an alternative
device should be used if available, but that it can continue operation if no
alternative exists. The operational state of the device will transition to
\fBDEVI_DEVICE_DEGRADED\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SERVICE_RESTORED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The service provided by the device has been restored. The operational state of
the device will transition to its pre-error condition state and
\fBDEVI_DEVICE_DOWN\fR or \fBDEVI_DEVICE_DEGRADED\fR is removed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SERVICE_UNAFFECTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
The service provided by the device was unaffected by the error.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.LP
The \fBddi_fm_service_impact()\fR function can be called from user, kernel, or
high-level interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBfmd\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBddi_fm_ereport_post\fR(9F),
\fBpci_ereport_post\fR(9F)
