'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_DMA_MOVWIN 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
ddi_dma_movwin \- shift current DMA window
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_dma_movwin\fR(\fBddi_dma_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR, \fBoff_t *\fR\fIoffp\fR,
     \fBuint_t *\fR\fIlenp\fR, \fBddi_dma_cookie_t *\fR\fIcookiep\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
This interface is obsolete. \fBddi_dma_getwin\fR(9F) should be used instead.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fBDMA\fR handle filled in by a call to \fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoffp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A pointer to an offset to set the \fBDMA\fR window to. Upon a successful
return, it will be filled in with the new offset from the beginning of the
object resources are allocated for.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlenp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A pointer to a value which must either be the current size of the \fBDMA\fR
window (as known from a call to \fBddi_dma_curwin\fR(9F) or from a previous
call to \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR). Upon a successful return, it will be filled in
with the size, in bytes, of the current window.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcookiep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
A pointer to a \fBDMA\fR cookie (see \fBddi_dma_cookie\fR(9S)). Upon a
successful return, cookiep is filled in just as if an implicit
\fBddi_dma_htoc\fR(9F) had been made.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR function shifts the current \fBDMA\fR window. If a
\fBDMA\fR request allows the system to allocate resources for less than the
entire object by setting the \fBDDI_DMA_PARTIAL\fR flag in the
\fBddi_dma_req\fR(9S) structure, the current \fBDMA\fR window can be shifted by
a call to \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The caller must first determine the current \fBDMA\fR window size by a call to
\fBddi_dma_curwin\fR(9F). Using the current offset and size of the window thus
retrieved, the caller of \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR may change the window onto the
object by changing the offset by a value which is some multiple of the size of
the \fBDMA\fR window.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR function takes care of underlying resource
synchronizations required to \fBshift\fR the window. However, if you want to
\fBaccess\fR the data prior to or after moving the window, further
synchronizations using \fBddi_dma_sync\fR(9F) are required.
.sp
.LP
This function is normally called from an interrupt routine. The first
invocation of the \fBDMA\fR engine is done from the driver. All subsequent
invocations of the \fBDMA\fR engine are done from the interrupt routine. The
interrupt routine checks to see if the request has been completed. If it has,
it returns without invoking another \fBDMA\fR transfer. Otherwise it calls
\fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR to shift the current window and starts another \fBDMA\fR
transfer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The current length and offset are legal and have been set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Otherwise.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_dma_movwin()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability Level	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBddi_dma_curwin\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_getwin\fR(9F),
\fBddi_dma_htoc\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_setup\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_sync\fR(9F),
\fBddi_dma_cookie\fR(9S), \fBddi_dma_req\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The caller must guarantee that the resources used by the object are inactive
prior to calling this function.
