'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\"  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_GET_LBOLT 9F "Feb 18, 1998"
.SH NAME
ddi_get_lbolt \- returns the value of lbolt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBclock_t\fR \fBddi_get_lbolt\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_get_lbolt()\fR returns the value of \fBlbolt\fR where \fBlbolt\fR is an
integer that represents the number of clock ticks since the last system reboot.
This value is used as a counter or timer inside the system kernel. The tick
frequency can be determined by using \fBdrv_usectohz\fR(9F) which converts
microseconds into clock ticks.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_get_lbolt()\fR returns the value of \fBlbolt\fR.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
 This routine can be called from any context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_get_time\fR(9F), \fBdrv_getparm\fR(9F), \fBdrv_usectohz\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
 \fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
