'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_PROP_EXISTS 9F "May 22, 1995"
.SH NAME
ddi_prop_exists \- check for the existence of a property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_prop_exists\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fImatch_dev\fR, \fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImatch_dev\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Device number associated with property or \fBDDI_DEV_T_ANY.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Pointer to the device info node of device whose property list should be
searched.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Possible flag values are some combination of:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_PROP_DONTPASS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Do not pass request to parent device information node if the property  is not
found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_PROP_NOTPROM\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Do not look at  \fBPROM \fRproperties (ignored on platforms that do not support
\fBPROM \fRproperties).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
String containing the name of the property.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_exists()\fR checks for the existence of a property regardless  of
the property value data type.
.sp
.LP
Properties are searched for based on the \fIdip\fR, \fIname\fR, and
\fImatch_dev\fR. The property search order is as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Search software properties created by the driver.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Search the software properties created by the system (or nexus nodes in the
device info tree).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Search the driver global properties list.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
If \fBDDI_PROP_NOTPROM\fR is not set, search the \fBPROM \fRproperties (if
they exist).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
If \fBDDI_PROP_DONTPASS\fR is not set, pass this request to the parent
device information node.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
Return \fB0\fR if not found and \fB1\fR if found.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Usually, the \fImatch_dev\fR argument should be set to the actual device number
that this property is associated with.  However, if the  \fImatch_dev\fR
argument is \fBDDI_DEV_T_ANY,\fR then  \fBddi_prop_exists()\fR will match the
request  regardless of the  \fImatch_dev\fR the property was created with.
That is the first property whose name matches \fIname\fR will be returned.  If
a property was created with  \fImatch_dev\fR set to  \fBDDI_DEV_T_NONE\fR then
the only way to look up this property is with a  \fImatch_dev\fR set to
\fBDDI_DEV_T_ANY.\fR \fBPROM \fRproperties are always created with
\fImatch_dev\fR set to \fBDDI_DEV_T_NONE.\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIname\fR must always be set to the name of the property being looked up.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_exists()\fR returns  \fB1\fR if the property exists and  \fB0\fR
otherwise.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from user or kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR: Using \fBddi_prop_exists()\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example demonstrates the use of  \fBddi_prop_exists()\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
/*
	* Enable "whizzy" mode if the "whizzy-mode" property exists
	*/
	if (ddi_prop_exists(xx_dev, xx_dip, DDI_PROP_NOTPROM,
	        "whizzy-mode") == 1) {
	      xx_enable_whizzy_mode(xx_dip);
	} else {
	      xx_disable_whizzy_mode(xx_dip);
	}
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_get_int\fR(9F), \fBddi_prop_lookup\fR(9F),
\fBddi_prop_remove\fR(9F), \fBddi_prop_update\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
