'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_INTR_ADD_SOFTINT 9F "Oct 16, 2005"
.SH NAME
ddi_intr_add_softint, ddi_intr_remove_softint, ddi_intr_trigger_softint,
ddi_intr_get_softint_pri, ddi_intr_set_softint_pri \- software interrupt
handling routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_add_softint\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR,
     \fBddi_softint_handle_t *\fR\fIh\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsoft_pri\fR,
     \fBddi_intr_handler_t\fR \fIhandler\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg1\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_trigger_softint\fR(\fBddi_softint_handle_t\fR \fIh\fR,
      \fBvoid *\fR\fIarg2\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_remove_softint\fR(\fBddi_softint_handle_t\fR \fIh\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_get_softint_pri\fR(\fBddi_softint_handle_t\fR \fIh\fR,
      \fBuint *\fR\fIsoft_prip\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBddi_intr_set_softint_pri\fR(\fBddi_softint_handle_t\fR \fIh\fR,
      \fBuint\fR \fIsoft_pri\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to a \fBdev_info\fR structure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to the DDI soft interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsoft_pri\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Priority to associate with a soft interrupt
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandler\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to soft interrupt handler
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIarg1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Argument for the soft interrupt handler
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
DDI soft interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIarg2\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Additional argument for the soft interrupt handler
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBddi_intr_remove_softint()\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
DDI soft interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBddi_intr_get_softint_pri()\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
DDI soft interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsoft_prip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Soft interrupt priority of the handle
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBddi_intr_set_softint_pri()\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIh\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
DDI soft interrupt handle
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsoft_prip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Soft interrupt priority of the handle
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR function adds the soft interrupt handler given
by the \fIhandler\fR argument \fIarg1\fR. The \fIhandler\fR runs at the soft
interrupt priority given by the \fIsoft_pri\fR argument.
.sp
.LP
The value returned in the location pointed at by \fIh\fR is the soft interrupt
handle. This value is used in later calls to \fBddi_intr_remove_softint()\fR,
\fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR and \fBddi_intr_set_softint_pri()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The software priority argument \fIsoft_pri\fR is a relative priority value
within the range of \fBDDI_INTR_SOFTPRI_MIN\fR and \fBDDI_INTR_SOFTPRI_MAX\fR.
If the driver does not know what priority to use, the default \fIsoft_pri\fR
value of \fBDDI_INTR_SOFTPRI_DEFAULT\fR could be specified. The default value
is the lowest possible soft interrupt priority value.
.sp
.LP
The \fIsoft_pri\fR argument contains the value needed to initialize the lock
associated with a soft interrupt. See \fBmutex_init\fR(9F) and
\fBrw_init\fR(9F). The handler cannot be triggered until the lock is
initiatized.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_remove_softint()\fR function removes the handler for the soft
interrupt identified by the interrupt handle \fIh\fR argument. Once removed,
the soft interrupt can no longer be triggered, although any trigger calls in
progress can still be delivered to the handler.
.sp
.LP
Drivers must remove any soft interrupt handlers before allowing the system to
unload the driver. Otherwise, kernel resource leaks might occur.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR function triggers the soft interrupt
specified by the interrupt handler \fIh\fR argument. A driver may optionally
specify an additional argument \fIarg2\fR that is passed to the soft interrupt
handler. Subsequent \fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR events, along with
\fIarg2\fR, will be dropped until the one pending is serviced and returns the
error code \fBDDI_EPENDING\fR.
.sp
.LP
The routine \fIhandler\fR, with the \fIarg1\fR and \fIarg2\fR arguments, is
called upon the receipt of a software interrupt. These were registered through
a prior call to \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR. Software interrupt handlers must
not assume that they have work to do when they run. Like hardware interrupt
handlers, they may run because a soft interrupt has occurred for some other
reason. For example, another driver may have triggered a soft interrupt at the
same level. Before triggering the soft interrupt, the driver must indicate to
the soft interrupt handler that it has work to do. This is usually done by
setting a flag in the state structure. The routine \fIhandler\fR checks this
flag, reached through \fIarg1\fR and \fIarg2\fR, to determine if it should
claim the interrupt and do its work.
.sp
.LP
The interrupt handler must return \fBDDI_INTR_CLAIMED\fR if the interrupt was
claimed and \fBDDI_INTR_UNCLAIMED\fR otherwise.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_get_softint_pri()\fR function retrieves the soft interrupt
priority, a small integer value, associated with the soft interrupt handle. The
handle is defined by the \fIh\fR argument, and the priority returned is in the
value of the integer pointed to by the \fIsoft_prip\fR argument.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR, \fBddi_intr_remove_softint()\fR,
\fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR, \fBddi_intr_get_softint_pri()\fR,
\fBddi_intr_set_softint_pri()\fR functions return:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
On success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_EAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
On encountering internal error regarding currently unavailable resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_EINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
On encountering invalid input parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
On any implementation specific failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_EPENDING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
On encountering a previously triggered softint event that is pending.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR, \fBddi_intr_remove_softint()\fR,
\fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR, \fBddi_intr_get_softint_pri()\fR,
\fBddi_intr_set_softint_pri()\fR functions can be called from either user or
kernel non-interrupt context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDevice using high-level interrupts
.sp
.LP
In the following example, the device uses high-level interrupts. High-level
interrupts are those that interrupt at the level of the scheduler and above.
High-level interrupts must be handled without using system services that
manipulate thread or process states, because these interrupts are not blocked
by the scheduler. In addition, high-level interrupt handlers must take care to
do a minimum of work because they are not preemptable. See
\fBddi_intr_get_hilevel_pri\fR(9F).

.sp
.LP
In the example, the high-level interrupt routine minimally services the device,
and enqueues the data for later processing by the soft interrupt handler. If
the soft interrupt handler is not currently running, the high-level interrupt
routine triggers a soft interrupt so the soft interrupt handler can process the
data. Once running, the soft interrupt handler processes all the enqueued data
before returning.

.sp
.LP
The state structure contains two mutexes. The high-level mutex is used to
protect data shared between the high-level interrupt handler and the soft
interrupt handler. The low-level mutex is used to protect the rest of the
driver from the soft interrupt handler.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct xxstate {
  ...
  ddi_intr_handle_t       int_hdl;
  int                     high_pri;
  kmutex_t                high_mutex;
  ddi_softint_handle_t    soft_hdl;
  int                     low_soft_pri;
  kmutex_t                low_mutex;
  int                     softint_running;
  ...
};

struct xxstate *xsp;
static uint_t xxsoftint_handler(void *, void *);
static uint_t xxhighintr(void *, void *);
\&...
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRSample \fBattach()\fR routine
.sp
.LP
The following code fragment would usually appear in the driver's
\fBattach\fR(9E) routine. \fBddi_intr_add_handler\fR(9F) is used to add the
high-level interrupt handler and \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR is used to add
the low-level interrupt routine.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
static uint_t
xxattach(dev_info_t *dip, ddi_attach_cmd_t cmd)
{
   int             types;
   int             *actual;
   int             nintrs;
   struct xxstate  *xsp;
   ...

   (void) ddi_intr_get_supported_types(dip, &types);
   (void) ddi_intr_get_nintrs(dip< DDI_INTR_TYPE_FIXED, *nintrs);
   (void) ddi_intr_alloc(dip, &xsp->int_hdl, DDI_INTR_TYPE_FIXED,
       1, nintrs, *actual, 0);

   /* initialize high-level mutex */
   (void) ddi_intr_get_pri(xsp->int_hdl, &>high_pri);
   mutex_init(&xsp->high_mutex, NULL, MUTEX_DRIVER,
       DDI_INTR_PRI(xsp->high_pri));

   /* Ensure that this is a hi-level interrupt */
   if (ddi_intr_get_hilevel_pri(h) != DDI_SUCCESS) {
           /* cleanup */
           return (DDI_FAILURE); /* fail attach */
   }

   /* add high-level routine - xxhighintr() */
   if (ddi_intr_add_handler(xsp->int_hdl, xxhighintr,
       arg1, NULL) != DDI_SUCCESS) {
           /* cleanup */
           return (DDI_FAILURE); /* fail attach */
   }

   /* Enable high-level routine - xxhighintr() */
   if (ddi_intr_enable(xsp->int_hdl) != DDI_SUCCESS) {
           /* cleanup */
           return (DDI_FAILURE); /* fail attach */
   }

   /* Enable soft interrupts */
   xsp->low_soft_pri = DDI_INTR_SOFTPRI_MIN;
   if (ddi_intr_add_softint(dip, &xsp>soft_hdl,
       xsp->low_soft_pri, xxsoftint_handler, arg1) != DDI_SUCCESS) {
           /* clean up */
           return (DDI_FAILURE); /* fail attach */
   }

   /* initialize low-level mutex */
   mutex_init(&xsp->low_mutex, NULL, MUTEX_DRIVER,
       DDI_INTR_PRI(xsp->low_soft_pri));

   ...
}
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRHigh-level interrupt routine
.sp
.LP
The next code fragment represents the high-level interrupt routine. The
high-level interrupt routine minimally services the device and enqueues the
data for later processing by the soft interrupt routine. If the soft interrupt
routine is not already running, \fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR is called to
start the routine. The soft interrupt routine will run until there is no more
data on the queue.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
static uint_t
xxhighintr(void *arg1, void *arg2)
{
   struct xxstate *xsp = (struct xxstate *)arg1;
   int need_softint;
   ...
   mutex_enter(&xsp->high_mutex);
   /*
   * Verify this device generated the interrupt
   * and disable the device interrupt.
   * Enqueue data for xxsoftint_handler() processing.
   */

   /* is xxsoftint_handler() already running ? */
   need_softint = (xsp->softint_running) ? 0 : 1;
   mutex_exit(&xsp->high_mutex);

   /* read-only access to xsp->id, no mutex needed */
   if (xsp->soft_hdl && need_softint)
           ddi_intr_trigger_softint(xsp->soft_hdl, arg2);
   ...
   return (DDI_INTR_CLAIMED);
}


static uint_t
xxsoftint_handler(void *arg1, void *arg2)
{
   struct xxstate *xsp = (struct xxstate *)arg1;
   ...
   mutex_enter(&xsp->low_mutex);
   mutex_enter(&xsp->high_mutex);

   /* verify there is work to do */
   if (work queue empty || xsp->softint_running )  {
           mutex_exit(&xsp->high_mutex);
           mutex_exit(&xsp->low_mutex);
           return (DDI_INTR_UNCLAIMED);
   }

   xsp->softint_running = 1;

   while ( data on queue )  {
           ASSERT(mutex_owned(&xsp->high_mutex));
           /* de-queue data */
           mutex_exit(&xsp->high_mutex);

           /* Process data on queue */
           mutex_enter(&xsp->high_mutex);
   }

   xsp->softint_running = 0;
   mutex_exit(&xsp->high_mutex);
   mutex_exit(&xsp->low_mutex);
   return (DDI_INTR_CLAIMED);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBattach\fR(9E), \fBddi_intr_alloc\fR(9F),
\fBddi_intr_free\fR(9F), \fBddi_intr_get_hilevel_pri\fR(9F),
\fBmutex_init\fR(9F), \fBrw_init\fR(9F), \fBrwlock\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Consumers of these interfaces should verify that the return value is not equal
to \fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR. Incomplete checking for failure codes could result in
inconsistent behavior among platforms.
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR may not be used to add the same software
interrupt handler more than once. This is true even if a different value is
used for \fIarg1\fR in each of the calls to \fBddi_intr_add_softint()\fR.
Instead, the argument passed to the interrupt handler should indicate what
service(s) the interrupt handler should perform. For example, the argument
could be a pointer to the soft state structure of the device that could contain
a \fBwhich_service\fR field that the handler examines. The driver must set this
field to the appropriate value before calling \fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR.
.sp
.LP
Every time a modifiable valid second argument, \fIarg2\fR, is provided when
\fBddi_intr_trigger_softint()\fR is invoked, the DDI framework saves \fIarg2\fR
internally and passes it to the interrupt handler \fIhandler\fR.
.sp
.LP
A call to \fBddi_intr_set_softint_pri()\fR could fail if a previously scheduled
soft interrupt trigger is still pending.
