.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common
.\" Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use
.\" this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the
.\" specific language governing permissions and limitations under the
.\" License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If
.\" applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields
.\" enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2018, Joyent, INc.
.\"
.Dd September 13, 2018
.Dt DDI_FM_INIT 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ddi_fm_init ,
.Nm ddi_fm_fini ,
.Nm ddi_fm_capable
.Nd initialize and get the FM capabilities for a device instance
capabilities for a device instance
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/ddifm.h
.Ft void
.Fo ddi_fm_init
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fa "int *fm_capability"
.Fa "ddi_iblock_cookie_t *ibcp"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo ddi_fm_fini
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo ddi_fm_capable
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Committed -
illumos DDI specific
.Sh Parameters
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa dip
Pointer to the driver's
.Sy dev_info
structure.
.It Fa fm_capability
Fault Management capability bit mask
.It Fa ibcp
Pointer to where the interrupt block cookie should be returned.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A device driver can declare its fault management capabilities to the I/O
Fault Management framework by calling the
.Fn ddi_fm_init
function.
The
.Fn ddi_fm_init
function allocates and initializes resources according to
the bitwise-inclusive-OR of the fault management capabilities, described in the
following and supported by the driver's immediate nexus parent.
.Bl -tag -width Vt
.It Vt DDI_FM_NOT_CAPABLE
The driver does not support any FMA features.
This is the default value assigned to device drivers.
.Pp
If the value of the capability bits is equal to
.Vt DDI_FM_NOT_CAPABLE ,
then no capability bits will be set.
Conversely, if a capability bit is set, then the capability value will
not be equal to
.Vt DDI_FM_NOT_CAPABLE .
.It Vt DDI_FM_EREPORT_CAPABLE
The driver generates FMA protocol error events
.Pq Sy ereports
upon the detection of an error condition.
.It Vt DDI_FM_ACCCHK_CAPABLE
The driver checks for errors upon the completion of one or more access
I/O transactions.
.It Vt DDI_FM_DMACHK_CAPABLE
The driver checks for errors upon the completion of one or more DMA
I/O transactions.
.It Vt DDI_FM_ERRCB_CAPABLE
The driver is capable of error handler callback registration.
.El
.Pp
If the parent nexus is not capable of supporting any one of the requested
capabilities, the associated bit will not be set and returned as such to the
driver.
Before returning from
.Fn ddi_fm_init ,
the I/O Fault Management framework creates a set of fault management capability
properties:
.Sy fm-ereport-capable ,
.Sy fm-errcb-capable ,
.Sy fm-accchk-capable ,
and
.Sy fm-dmachk-capable .
The current supported fault management capability levels are observable via
.Xr prtconf 1M .
.Pp
A driver can support the administrative selection of fault management
capabilities by exporting and setting a fault management capability level
property in its
.Xr driver.conf 4
file to the values described above.
The
.Sy fm_capable
properties must be set and read prior to calling
.Fn ddi_fm_init
with the desired capability list.
.Pp
The
.Fn ddi_fm_fini
function cleans up the kernel infrastructure set up during a call to the
.Fn ddi_fm_init
function.
If the driver did not call
.Fn ddi_fm_init
or the capability returned in
.Fa fm_capability
was
.Vt DDI_FM_NOT_CAPABLE
then the driver must not call
.Fn ddi_fm_fini .
.Pp
The
.Fn ddi_fm_capable
function returns the capability bit mask currently set for the device
instance identified by
.Fa dip .
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn ddi_fm_init
and
.Fn ddi_fm_fini
functions may only be called from kernel context during a driver's
.Xr attach 9E
and
.Xr detach 9E
entry points.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn ddi_fm_capable
function returns the FM capability bit mask currently in use.
If no capabilities are in use then
.Vt DDI_FM_NOT_CAPABLE
is returned.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr prtconf 1M ,
.Xr driver.conf 4 ,
.Xr attach 9E ,
.Xr detach 9E
.Pp
.Rs
.%B Writing Device Drivers
.Re
