'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_PROP_GET_INT 9F "Aug 25, 2001"
.SH NAME
ddi_prop_get_int, ddi_prop_get_int64 \- lookup integer property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBddi_prop_get_int\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fImatch_dev\fR, \fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBint\fR \fIdefvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint64_t\fR \fBddi_prop_get_int64\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fImatch_dev\fR, \fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBuint_t\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBint64_t\fR \fIdefvalue\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImatch_dev\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Device number associated with property or \fBDDI_DEV_T_ANY.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to the device info node of device whose property list should be
searched.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Possible flag values are some combination of:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_PROP_DONTPASS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Do not pass request to parent device information node if property not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_PROP_NOTPROM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Do not look at \fBPROM \fRproperties (ignored on platforms that do not support
\fBPROM \fRproperties).
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
String containing the name of the property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdefvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An integer value that is returned if the property cannot be found.
.RE

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR and \fBddi_prop_get_int64()\fR functions search
for an integer property and, if found, returns the value of the property.
.sp
.LP
Properties are searched for based on the \fIdip\fR, \fIname\fR,
\fImatch_dev\fR, and the type of the data (integer). The property search order
is as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Search software properties created by the driver.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Search the software properties created by the system (or nexus nodes in the
device info tree).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Search the driver global properties list.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
4.
If \fBDDI_PROP_NOTPROM\fR is not set, search the \fBPROM \fRproperties (if
they exist).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
5.
If \fBDDI_PROP_DONTPASS\fR is not set, pass this request to the parent
device information node.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
6.
Return \fIdefvalue\fR.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Usually, the \fImatch_dev\fR argument should be set to the actual device number
that this property is associated with. However, if the \fImatch_dev\fR argument
is \fBDDI_DEV_T_ANY,\fR then \fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR and
\fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR will match the request regardless of the
\fImatch_dev\fR the property was created with. If a property was created with
\fImatch_dev\fR set to \fBDDI_DEV_T_NONE,\fR then the only way to look up this
property is with a \fImatch_dev\fR set to \fBDDI_DEV_T_ANY.\fR \fBPROM
\fRproperties are always created with \fImatch_dev\fR set to
\fBDDI_DEV_T_NONE.\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIname\fR must always be set to the name of the property being looked up.
.sp
.LP
The return value of the routine is the value of the property. If the property
is not found, the argument \fIdefvalue\fR is returned as the value of the
property.
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_get_int64()\fR will not search the PROM for 64-bit property values.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR and \fBddi_prop_get_int64()\fR return the value of the
property. If the property is not found, the argument \fBdefvalue\fR is
returned. If the property is found, but cannot be decoded into an \fBint\fR or
an \fBint64\fR, then \fBDDI_PROP_NOT_FOUND\fR is returned.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR and \fBddi_prop_get_int64()\fR can be called from user
or kernel context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example demonstrates the use of \fBddi_prop_get_int()\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB	
/*
	* Get the value of the integer "width" property, using
	* our own default if no such property exists
	*/
	width = ddi_prop_get_int(xx_dev, xx_dip, 0, "width",
	           XX_DEFAULT_WIDTH);\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_prop_exists\fR(9F), \fBddi_prop_lookup\fR(9F),
\fBddi_prop_remove\fR(9F), \fBddi_prop_update\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
