'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_REGS_MAP_FREE 9F "Nov 18, 2004"
.SH NAME
ddi_regs_map_free \- free a previously mapped register address space
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBddi_regs_map_free\fR(\fBddi_acc_handle_t\fR \fI*handle\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris \fBDDI\fR specific (Solaris \fBDDI\fR).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Pointer to a data access handle previously allocated by a call to a setup
routine such as \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_regs_map_free()\fR frees the mapping represented by the data access
handle  \fIhandle\fR. This function is provided for drivers preparing to detach
themselves from the system, allowing them to release allocated system resources
represented in the handle.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_regs_map_free()\fR must be called from user or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	PCI Local Bus, SBus, ISA
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
