'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DLBINDACK 9F "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
dlbindack, dlphysaddrack, dlokack, dlerrorack, dluderrorind \- DLPI device
driver helper functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/dlpi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBdlokack\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIcorrect_primitive\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBdlerrorack\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIerror_primitive\fR,
     \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIerror\fR, \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIunix_errno\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBdlbindack\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBt_scalar_t\fR \fIsap\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIaddrp\fR,
     \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIaddrlen\fR, \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fImaxconind\fR, \fB t_uscalar_t\fR \fIxidtest\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBdlphysaddrack\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIaddrp\fR,
     \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIaddrlen\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBdluderrorind\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBconst void *\fR\fIaddrp\fR,
     \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIaddrlen\fR, \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIerror\fR, \fBt_uscalar_t\fR \fIunix_errno\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIwq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Streams write queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Pointer to the bind request message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Service access point being requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaddrp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Pointer to the dlpi layer source address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaddrlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Size of the \fBdlpi\fR layer address pointed to by \fIaddr\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImaxconind\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Maximum number of \fBDL_CONNECT_IND\fR messages allowed to be outstanding per
stream.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIxidtest\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The \fBXID\fR and \fBTEST\fR responses supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcorrect_primitive\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Identifies the \fBDL\fR primitive completing successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIerror_primitive\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Identifies the \fBDL\fR primitive in error.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIerror\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBDLPI\fR error associated with the failure in the \fBDLPI\fR request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIunix_errno\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Corresponding \fBUNIX\fR system error that can be associated with the failure
in the \fBDLPI\fR request.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
All functions described in this manpage take a pointer to the message passed to
the \fBDLPI\fR provider (\fBmblk_t\fR) and attempt to reuse it in formulating
the \fBM_PROTO\fR reply. If the message block is too small to be reused, it is
freed and a new one is allocated.
.sp
.LP
All functions reply upstream using \fBqreply\fR(9F). The write-side queue
pointer must be provided.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlokack()\fR function provides the successful acknowledgement
\fBDL_OK_ACK\fR message reply to the \fBDLPI\fR provider and is used to
complete many of the \fBDLPI\fR requests in the \fBDLPI\fR consumer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlerrorack()\fR function provides the unsuccessful acknowledgement
\fBDL_ERROR_ACK\fR message reply to the \fBDLPI\fR() provider and is used for
error completions were required for \fBDLPI\fR requests in the \fBDLPI\fR
consumer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlbindack()\fR function provides the \fBDL_BIND_ACK\fR message reply to
the \fBDLPI\fR provider and is used to complete the \fBDL_BIND_REQ\fR
processing in the \fBDLPI\fR consumer.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdlphysaddrack()\fR function provides the \fB\fR()\fBDL_PHYS_ADDR_ACK\fR
message reply used to complete the \fBDL_PHYS_ADDR_ACK\fR processing.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdluderrorind()\fR function provides the \fBDL_UDERROR_IND\fR message
reply used to complete an unsuccessful \fBDL_UNITDATA_REQ\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
None.
.SH NOTES
.LP
These functions are not required if you are are writing a \fBDLPI\fR device
driver using \fBgld\fR(7D).
.SH CONTEXT
.LP
All \fBDLPI\fR helper functions can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBgld\fR(7D), \fBdlpi\fR(7P), \fBqreply\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
