'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FREEMSG 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
freemsg \- free all message blocks in a message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBfreemsg\fR(\fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 6n
Pointer to the message blocks to be deallocated. \fBmblk_t\fR is an instance of
the \fBmsgb\fR(9S) structure. If \fImp\fR is \fINULL\fR, \fBfreemsg()\fR
immediately returns.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfreemsg()\fR function calls \fBfreeb\fR(9F) to free all message and data
blocks associated with the message pointed to by \fImp\fR.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBfreemsg()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBfreemsg()\fR
.sp
.LP
See \fBcopymsg\fR(9F).

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcopymsg\fR(9F), \fBfreeb\fR(9F), \fBmsgb\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The behavior of \fBfreemsg()\fR when passed a \fINULL\fR pointer is
Solaris-specific.
