.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2026 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd July 11, 2026
.Dt KCOPY 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm kcopy
.Nd copy data between kernel addresses, guarding against faults
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/systm.h
.Ft int
.Fo kcopy
.Fa "const void *from"
.Fa "void *to"
.Fa "size_t count"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa from
Source kernel address of the copy.
.It Fa to
Destination kernel address of the copy.
.It Fa count
Number of bytes to copy.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kcopy
function copies
.Fa count
bytes from one kernel address to another.
It performs the same copy as
.Xr bcopy 9F ,
but guards against faults for the duration of the copy.
A fault taken while copying is first handled as an ordinary page fault,
so a copy involving pageable kernel memory succeeds when the fault can
be resolved.
A fault which cannot be resolved causes
.Fn kcopy
to return an error, where
.Xr bcopy 9F
would panic the system.
.Pp
Both
.Fa from
and
.Fa to
must be kernel addresses.
.Fn kcopy
must not be used to copy data to or from user address space; use
.Xr copyin 9F
and
.Xr copyout 9F
for that.
If the source and destination areas overlap, the behaviour is
undefined.
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn kcopy
function can be called from user or kernel context.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn kcopy
function returns 0.
Otherwise, a fault occurred that could not be resolved, and an error
number describing the fault, most commonly
.Er EFAULT ,
is returned.
Note that this differs from
.Xr copyin 9F
and
.Xr copyout 9F ,
which return -1 on failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr bcopy 9F ,
.Xr copyin 9F ,
.Xr copyout 9F ,
.Xr ddi_copyin 9F ,
.Xr ddi_copyout 9F ,
.Xr uio_copyin 9F ,
.Xr uio_copyout 9F
