'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH KSTAT_NAMED_INIT 9F "Feb 29, 2008"
.SH NAME
kstat_named_init, kstat_named_setstr \- initialize a named kstat
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/kstat.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBkstat_named_init\fR(\fBkstat_named_t *\fR\fIknp\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR,
     \fBuchar_t\fR \fIdata_type\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBkstat_named_setstr\fR(\fBkstat_named_t *\fR\fIknp\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIstr\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIknp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a \fBkstat_named\fR(9S) structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The name of the statistic.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdata_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The type of value. This indicates which field of the \fBkstat_named\fR(9S)
structure should be used. Valid values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKSTAT_DATA_CHAR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The "\fBchar\fR" field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKSTAT_DATA_LONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The "\fBlong\fR" field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKSTAT_DATA_ULONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
The "\fBunsigned long\fR" field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKSTAT_DATA_LONGLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Obsolete. Use \fBKSTAT_DATA_INT64\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKSTAT_DATA_ULONGLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Obsolete. Use \fBKSTAT_DATA_UINT64\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBKSTAT_DATA_STRING\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Arbitrary length "\fBlong string\fR" field.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIstr\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a \fBNULL\fR-terminated string.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBkstat_named_init()\fR associates a name and a type with a
\fBkstat_named\fR(9S) structure.
.sp
.LP
\fBkstat_named_setstr()\fR associates \fIstr\fR with the named kstat \fBknp\fR.
It is an error for \fBknp\fR to be of type other than \fBKSTAT_DATA_STRING\fR.
The string argument must remain valid even after the function that is calling
\fBkstat_named_setstr()\fR is returned. If \fBKSTAT_DATA_STRING\fR is used in a
persistent kstat the string argument must remain valid even after the module
that created the kstat is unloaded. This is the only supported method of changing
the value of long strings.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
None.
.SH CONTEXT
.LP
\fBkstat_named_init()\fR and \fBkstat_named_setstr()\fR can be called from user
or kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBkstat_create\fR(9F), \fBkstat_install\fR(9F), \fBkstat\fR(9S),
\fBkstat_named\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
