.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2023 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd February 15, 2023
.Dt KTEST_GET_INPUT 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ktest_get_input
.Nd get the input stream
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/ktest.h
.Ft void
.Fo ktest_get_input
.Fa "const ktest_ctx_hdl_t *ctx"
.Fa "uchar_t **bytes"
.Fa "size_t *len"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
This interface is still evolving in illumos.
API and ABI stability is not guaranteed.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa ctx
A handle to the test context.
This handle is passed as argument to the test function by the ktest facility.
.It Fa bytes
A return parameter used to provide the caller with a pointer to the
bytes of the input stream.
.It Fa len
A return parameter used to provide the caller with the number of bytes
in the input stream.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn ktest_get_input
function is used to get a handle to the input stream passed to the
test along with its length.
.Pp
This function panics when called on a context with no input stream.
.Sh EXAMPLES
This examples shows a test that verifies all bytes in the input stream
are lowercase ASCII.
.Bd -literal
void
is_lower_ascii_test(ktest_ctx_hdl_t *ctx)
{
	uchar_t *bytes = NULL;
	size_t len = 0;

	ktest_get_input(ctx, &bytes, &len);

	for (size_t i = 0; i < len; i++) {
		KT_ASSERT3U(bytes[i], >=, 'a', ctx);
		KT_ASSERT3U(bytes[i], <=, 'z', ctx);
	}

	KT_PASS(ctx);
}
.Ed
