'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LIST_CREATE 9F "Sep 17, 2009"
.SH NAME
list_create, list_destroy, list_insert_after, list_insert_before,
list_insert_head, list_insert_tail, list_remove, list_remove_head,
list_remove_tail, list_head, list_tail, list_next, list_prev, list_is_empty,
list_link_init, list_link_active, list_move_tail, list_link_replace \- list
functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/list.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_create\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIsize\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIoffset\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_destroy\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_after\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIreference_item\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fR\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_before\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIreference_item\fR,
     \fBvoid *\fR\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_head\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR*, \fBvoid *\fR\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_insert_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fInew_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_remove\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fRitem);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBlist_remove_head\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBlist_remove_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBlist_head\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBlist_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBlist_next\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIreference_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid *\fR\fBlist_prev\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIreference_item\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBlist_is_empty\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR \fIlist\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_link_init\fR(\fBlist_node_t *\fR\fInode\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBlist_link_active\fR(\fBlist_node_t *\fR\fInode\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_move_tail\fR(\fBlist_t *\fR\fIdst\fR, \fBlist_t *\fR\fIsrc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBlist_link_replace\fR(\fBlist_node_t *\fR\fInode1\fR, \fBlist_node_t *\fR\fInode2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These functions provide a generic doubly-linked list implementation. To
utilize it, simply embed a \fBlist_node_t\fR field in the structures
that will constitute the linked list elements and pass the
\fBlist_node_t\fR field offset to \fBlist_create()\fR in the appropriate
parameter (see below). A single \fBlist_node_t\fR field can only be used
in a single list simultaneously, so to add a structure to multiple
lists, embed multiple \fBlist_node_t\fR fields in your user structure.
.sp
.LP
Please note that a \fBlist_node_t\fR contains pointers back to its
parent \fBlist_t\fR so you cannot copy the \fBlist_t\fR around once it
has been initialized. In particular, this kind of construct won't work:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct { list_t l; } a, b;
list_create(&a.l, ...);
b = a;    <= This will break the list in `b', as the `l' element
             in `a' got copied to a different memory address.
.fi
.in -2
.sp
To do this you must move the list items to the new list using functions
such as \fBlist_move_tail()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_create()\fR function initializes a new list. The driver supplies
the storage for the list handle, the size of an individual element, and the
offset of a \fBlist_node_t\fR within the element to use for the links of the
list.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_destroy()\fR function destroys the list handle, including freeing
any resources that may have been internally allocated for the list. The list
must be empty when this function is called.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_insert_after()\fR and \fBlist_insert_before()\fR functions insert
\fInew_item\fR into the linked list at a location after or before the reference
item, which must already be on the list.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_insert_head()\fR and \fBlist_insert_tail()\fR functions insert the
\fInew_item\fR on the list at either the head or tail of the list.  (The head
is the first item, the tail is the last item).
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_remove()\fR function removes the item from the list.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_remove_head()\fR and \fBlist_remove_tail()\fR functions remove the
head (first) or tail (last) item from the list. The item removed is returned to
the caller. If the list is empty when these functions are called, then no
change is made and \fINULL\fR is returned to the caller.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_head()\fR and \fBlist_tail()\fR functions simply return the head
(first) or tail (last) item on the list.  \fINULL\fR is returned if the list is
empty.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_next()\fR and \fBlist_prev()\fR functions return the next or
previous item in the list, relative to the named reference item which must be
linked on the list.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_is_empty()\fR function returns 0 if the list has items in it, or
non-zero otherwise.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_link_init()\fR function initializes the \fBlist_node_t\fR. It is
functionally equivalent to \fBbzero\fR(\fInode\fR, \fBsizeof\fR(*\fInode\fR));
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_link_active()\fR function returns non-zero if the node is on an
active list.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_move_tail()\fR function is used to append the items on the
\fIsrc\fR list to the end of the \fIdst\fR list. It is mandatory that the two
lists were initialized using identical size and offset parameters. Upon
completion, the \fIsrc\fR list will be empty.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlist_link_replace()\fR function swaps two items on a list.  Note that
the items need not be on the same list, but extreme care must be used to ensure
that both lists are protected from concurrent accesses and that the lists were
initialized with identical size and offset parameters.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
