.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 01, 2016
.Dt MAC_HCKSUM_GET 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_hcksum_get ,
.Nm mac_hcksum_set
.Nd get and set checksum information on message blocks
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft void
.Fo mac_hcksum_get
.Fa "mblk_t *mp"
.Fa "uint32_t *start"
.Fa "uint32_t *stuff"
.Fa "uint32_t *end"
.Fa "uint32_t *value"
.Fa "uint32_t *flags"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_hcksum_set
.Fa "mblk_t *mp"
.Fa "uint32_t start"
.Fa "uint32_t stuff"
.Fa "uint32_t end"
.Fa "uint32_t value"
.Fa "uint32_t flags"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa mp
A pointer to a
.Xr mblk 9S
structure that contains a frame.
.It Fa start
The value or a pointer to it that contains the offset from the L3
header, generally IP, of the first byte that's covered by the checksum.
.It Fa stuff
The value or a pointer to it that contains the offset from the L3 header
of where the L4 checksum is.
For example, if using IPv4 and TCP, this would contain the offset from the start
of the IPv4 header to the first byte of the TCP checksum.
.It Fa end
The value or a pointer to it that contains the offset from the L3
header, generally IP, of the last byte that's covered by the checksum.
.It Fa value
The value or a pointer to it that contains the actual value of the
checksum.
.It Fa flags
A series of one or more flags that have bitwise inclusive ORed together.
The set of flags have different meanings depending on whether
.Fa mp
is being transmitted or received.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mac_hcksum_get
and
.Fn mac_hcksum_set
functions are provided to device drivers to get and set checksum related
information.
When a device driver indicates that it supports the
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_HCKSUM
capability as part of its
.Xr mc_getcapab 9E
entry point, then it is responsible for calling these functions
appropriately during the transmit and receive paths.
.Pp
While both functions operate on an
.Sy mblk_t ,
this function should only be called on the first
.Sy mblk_t
that begins a given individual frame in a chain.
In other words, it only works on entries where it is the first of many possible
entries linked together by the
.Sy b_cont
member.
The first
.Sy mblk_t
received from any
.Xr mac 9E
API or pointed to by a
.Sy b_next
pointer should be used.
.Ss Receiving Data
When a device driver is receiving data, it is its responsibility to
.Em set
checksum information when it has indicated that it supports the
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_HCKSUM
capability.
Device drivers will call the
.Fn mac_hcksum_set
function to indicate what checksum information has occurred.
.Pp
The proper values to set depend on the flags passed in.
The following flags are supported when receiving data, note that they may have
different meanings from when transmitting data.
The driver should set the
.Fa flags
argument to the bitwise inclusive OR of the following values:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy HCK_IPV4_HDRCKSUM_OK
This flag indicates that the hardware has verified the IPv4 header is
correct and that the networking stack does not need to verify it.
.It Sy HCK_PARTIALCKSUM
This flag indicates that the hardware has computed a partial checksum.
When this flag is set, the driver is responsible for passing in the
partial checksum in the
.Fa value
argument as well as the start and ending bytes of the checksum in the
.Fa start
and
.Fa end
arguments.
.It Sy HCK_FULLCKSUM
This flag indicates that the hardware has calculated the full L4 header
checksum; however, it wants the system to verify it.
The checksum should be passed in the
.Fa value
argument.
.It Sy HCK_FULLCKSUM_OK
This flag indicates that the hardware has calculated the full L4 header
checksum and verified that it is correct.
The networking stack does not need to verify it.
.El
.Pp
The
.Sy HCK_PARTIALCKSUM ,
.Sy HCK_FULLCKSUM ,
and
.Sy HCK_FULLCKSUM_OK
flags are all mutually exclusive.
A device driver should only set one of the three flags.
.Pp
If one of the arguments is not required based on the specified value of
.Fa flags ,
then the device driver should set any remaining arguments to
.Sy 0 .
.Ss Transmitting Data
When a device driver is transmitting data and it has advertised that it
supports the
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_HCKSUM
capability, then it must call the
.Fn mac_hcksum_get
function to determine what hardware checksumming options are required to
be performed by the hardware.
While the device driver may need the other fields, it must check the
.Fa flags
argument to determine what it is being requested to do.
The following values may be set in
.Fa flags :
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy HCK_IPV4_HDRCKSUM
The device driver must compute the IPv4 header checksum.
No other fields have been filled in.
.It Sy HCK_PARTIALCKSUM
The device driver needs to compute the partial ones' complement of the
checksum.
The system has filled in the
.Fa start ,
.Fa stuff ,
and
.Fa end
arguments to assist the device driver.
.It Sy HCK_FULLCKSUM
The device driver should compute the full L4 checksum.
No other fields have been filled in for the device driver.
.El
.Pp
The flags that the device driver will get will depend on what the device
driver has advertised that it supports in response to the
.Xr mc_getcapab 9E
query for the
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_HCKSUM
capability.
.Pp
The
.Sy HCK_PARTIALCKSUM
and
.Sy HCK_FULLCKSUM
flags are mutually exclusive.
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn mac_hcksum_get
and
.Fn mac_hcksum_set
functions may be called from any context.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mac_getcapab 9E ,
.Xr mblk 9S
