.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2016
.Dt MAC_PROP_INFO 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_prop_info ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_default_link_flowctrl ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_default_str ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8 ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_default_uint32 ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_default_uint64 ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_perm ,
.Nm mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32
.Nd mac property information functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_default_link_flowctrl
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "link_flowctrl_t fctl"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_default_str
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "const char *str"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "uint8_t u8"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_default_uint16
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "uint16_t u16"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_default_uint32
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "uint32_t u32"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_perm
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "uint8_t perm"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fa "uint32_t low"
.Fa "uint32_t high"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ft hdl
A pointer to the MAC property information handle.
.It Ft fctl
A valid link flow control entry.
Valid values are documented in the
.Sy MAC_PROP_FLOWCTRL
property description in the
.Sx PROPERTIES
section of
.Xr mac 9E .
.It Ft str
A null-terminated ASCII character string that describes that contains a
value of a property.
.It Ft u8
An 8-bit unsigned value.
.It Ft u16
An 16-bit unsigned value.
.It Ft u32
An 32-bit unsigned value.
.It Ft perm
An 8-bit unsigned value which is the bitwise inclusive OR of the
following values:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_READ
This flag indicates that a property is
.Sy readable .
.It Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_WRITE
This flag indicates that a property is
.Sy writable .
.It Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_RW
This flag indicates that a property is both
.Sy readable
and
.Sy writable .
This is equivalent to specifying both
.Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_READ
and
.Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_WRITE .
.El
.It Ft low
A 32-bit unsigned value that represents the lowest possible value of an
integer property, generally inclusive.
.It Ft high
A 32-bit unsigned value that represents the highest possible value an
integer property, generally inclusive.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Sy mac_prop_info
family of functions are used to fill in metadata about a given property
as part of a driver's
.Xr mc_propinfo 9E
entry point.
These functions can be used to fill in information about the default value that
the device assigns to a property and the permissions that a privileged user has
to update the property.
.Pp
The
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_perm
function is used to set the permissions of a property.
These permissions indicate whether or not the property can be read or modified
from the device driver's perspective.
The permissions for a given property should generally not change for a given
device and they do not need to take into account user privileges.
For the most case, properties will only take one of two values:
.Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_READ
or
.Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_RW .
Usually it does not make sense for a property to just have
.Sy MAC_PROP_PERM_WRITE .
.Pp
Subsequent calls to the
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_perm
function will override the values stored in previous calls.
.Pp
The
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32
function is used to indicate a range of possible integer values that a
device may take.
This range is generally inclusive, meaning the property may be set to any value
in the range of
.Fa low
to
.Fa high .
Each time the
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32
function is called, a new property range is added, allowing for multiple
disjoint ranges to be specified for a given property.
.Pp
The remaining functions,
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_link_flowctrl ,
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_str ,
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_uint8 ,
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_uint16 ,
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_uint32 ,
and
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32
update the default value of a given property.
The default value is the initial value that the property takes after the device
driver has called
.Xr mac_register 9F .
If these functions are called multiple times, then the default value
will be replaced with each call.
.Pp
The different functions each support a different type of default value
and some are used for specific properties.
The
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_link_flowctrl
function works with properties that describe flow control properties.
The various values of a
.Ft link_flowctrl_t
are documented in
.Xr mac 9E .
.Pp
The
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_str
function sets the default value for properties that use strings.
The device driver should ensure that it uses alphanumeric ASCII characters
only in the string to guarantee portability.
.Pp
The
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8 ,
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_uint16 ,
and
.Fn mac_prop_info_set_default_uint32
functions set the default value for values whose properties are 8-, 16-,
and 32-bit unsigned values respectively.
.Sh CONTEXT
These functions are generally called on a handle passed into the
.Xr mc_propinfo 9E
entry point, though they function in both
.Sy user
and
.Sy kernel
context.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
All of the functions documented here do not return a value.
It is not the driver's responsibility to ensure that there is sufficient space
for permissions, ranges, or default values in the
.Ft mac_prop_info_handle_t
structures: the surrounding driver framework will transparently take
care of that and ensure that errors are correctly propagated.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mc_getprop 9E ,
.Xr mc_propinfo 9E ,
.Xr mc_setprop 9E
