.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2016
.Dt MAC_REGISTER 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_register ,
.Nm mac_unregister
.Nd register and unregister a device driver from the MAC framework
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft int
.Fo mac_register
.Fa "mac_register_t *mregp"
.Fa "mac_handle_t *mhp"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo mac_unregister
.Fa "mac_handle_t mh"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa mregp
A pointer to a
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure allocated by calling
.Xr mac_alloc 9F
and filled in by the device driver.
.It Fa mhp
A pointer to a driver-backed handle to the MAC framework.
.It Fa mh
The driver-backed handle to the MAC framework.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mac_register
function is used to register an instance of a device driver with the
.Xr mac 9E
framework. Upon successfully calling the
.Fn mac_register
function, the device will start having its
.Xr mac_callbacks 9S
entry points called. The device driver should call this function
during it's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point after the device has been configured and is set up. For a
more detailed explanation of the exact steps that the device driver
should take and where in the sequence of a driver's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point this function should be called, see the
.Sx Registering with MAC
section of
.Xr mac 9E .
.Pp
The driver should provide a pointer to a
.Ft mac_handle_t
structure as the second argument to the
.Fn mac_register
function. This handle will be used when the device driver needs to
interact with the framework in various ways throughout its life. It is
also where the driver gets the
.Fa mh
argument for calling the
.Fn mac_unregister
function. It is recommended that the device driver keep the handle
around in its soft state structure for a given instance.
.Pp
If the call to the
.Fn mac_register
function fails, the device driver should unwind its
.Xr attach 9E
entry point, tear down everything that it initialized, and ultimately
return an error from its
.Xr attach 9E
entry point.
.Pp
If the
.Xr attach 9E
routine fails for some reason after the call to the
.Fn mac_register
function has succeeded, then the driver should call the
.Fn mac_unregister
function as part of unwinding all of its state.
.Pp
When a driver is in its
.Xr detach 9E
entry point, it should call the
.Fn mac_unregister
function immediately after draining any of its transmit and receive
resources that might have been given to the rest of the operating system
through DMA binding. See the
.Sx MBLKS AND DMA
section of
.Xr mac 9E
for more information. This should be done before the driver does any
tearing down. The call to the
.Fn mac_unregister
function may fail. This may happen because the networking stack is still
using the device. In such a case, the driver should fail the call to
.Xr detach 9E
and return
.Sy DDI_FAILURE .
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn mac_register
function is generally only called from a driver's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point. The
.Fn mac_unregister
function is generally only called from a driver's
.Xr attach 9E
and
.Xr detach 9E
entry point. However, both functions may be called from either
.Sy user
or
.Sy kernel
context.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn mac_register
and
.Fn mac_unregister
functions both return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise, they return an error number.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example shows how a device driver might call the
.Fn mac_register
function.
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/mac_provider.h>
#include <sys/mac_ether.h>

/*
 * The call to mac_register(9F) generally comes from the context of
 * attach(9E). This function encapsulates setting up and initializing
 * the mac_register_t structure and should be assumed to be called from
 * attach.
 *
 * The exact set of callbacks and private properties will vary based
 * upon the driver.
 */

static char *example_priv_props[] = {
	"_rx_intr_throttle",
	"_tx_intr_throttle",
	NULL
};

static mac_callbacks_t example_m_callbacks = {
	.mc_callbacsk = MC_GETCAPAB | MC_SETPROP | MC_GETPROP | MC_PROPINFO |
	    MC_IOCTL,
	.mc_start = example_m_start,
	.mc_stop = example_m_stop,
	.mc_setpromisc = example_m_setpromisc,
	.mc_multicst = example_m_multicst,
	.mc_unicst = example_m_unicst,
	.mc_tx = example_m_tx,
	.mc_ioctl = example_m_ioctl,
	.mc_getcapab = example_m_getcapab,
	.mc_getprop = example_m_getprop,
	.mc_setprop = example_m_setprop,
	.mc_propinfo = example_m_propinfo
};

static boolean_t
example_register_mac(example_t *ep)
{
	int status;
	mac_register_t *mac;

	mac = mac_alloc(MAC_VERSION);
	if (mac == NULL)
		return (B_FALSE);

	mac->m_type_indent = MAC_PLUGIN_IDENT_ETHER;
	mac->m_driver = ep;
	mac->m_dip = ep->ep_dev_info;
	mac->m_src_addr = ep->ep_mac_addr;
	mac->m_callbacks = &example_m_callbacks;
	mac->m_min_sdu = 0;
	mac->m_max_sdu = ep->ep_sdu;
	mac->m_margin = VLAN_TAGSZ;
	mac->m_priv_props = exmple_priv_props;

	status = mac_register(mac, &ep->ep_mac_hdl);
	mac_free(mac);

	return (status == 0);
}
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn mac_register
function may fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It EEXIST
A driver with the same name and instance already exists.
.It EINVAL
There was something invalid with the device's registration information.
Some of the following reasons may apply, this list is not exhaustive:
.Bl -bullet
.It
The
.Xr mac_init_ops 9F
function was not called.
.It
The specified mac plugin does not exist.
.It
An invalid minor number was used.
.It
The default unicast source address was incorrect.
.It
The plugin specific private data was incorrect or missing.
.It
Plugin specific data was provided when none is required.
.It
Required callback functions are not specified.
.It
The system was unable to properly create minor nodes.
.El
.It ENOSPC
The
.Xr mac 9E
framework was unable to allocate a minor number for the device as they
have all been exhausted.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fn mac_unregister
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EBUSY
The device is still in use.
.It Er ENOTEMPTY
The flow table is not empty.
.El
.Pp
Note the set of errors for both the
.Fn mac_regster
and
.Fn mac_unregister
functions are not set in stone and may be expanded in future revisions.
In general, all errors should be handled by the device driver in similar
ways for these functions.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr attach 9E ,
.Xr detach 9E ,
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mac_alloc 9F ,
.Xr mac_init_ops 9F ,
.Xr mac_callbacks 9S ,
.Xr mac_register 9S
