.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2016
.Dt MAC_LINK_UPDATE 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_link_update
.Nd inform the MAC layer about a link state change
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft void
.Fo mac_link_update
.Fa "mac_handle_t mh"
.Fa "link_state_t link"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa mh
The MAC handle obtained from a call to
.Xr mac_register 9F .
.It Fa link
The current state of the link.
For valid link states see the discussion of
.Sy MAC_PROP_STATUS
in the
.Sx PROPERTIES
section of
.Xr mac 9E .
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mac_link_update
function is used by device drivers to inform the MAC layer that the
state of a link has changed.
As discussed in the
.Sx Link Updates
section of
.Xr mac 9E ,
the driver should call this whenever it detects that the state of the
link has changed.
If the state has not changed, then the driver should not call this function.
In addition, if the device driver is powering off the link or is transitioning
to a state where it can no longer determine the link status, then it should make
sure to call this function with the value of
.Fa link
set to
.Sy LINK_STATE_UNKNOWN .
.Pp
Device drivers should ensure that they're not holding any of their
specific locks when calling this function.
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn mac_link_update
function may be called from
.Sy user ,
.Sy kernel ,
or
.Sy interrupt
context.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mac_register 9F
