'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MIOCACK 9F "Jun 9, 2004"
.SH NAME
miocack \- Positively acknowledge an M_IOCTL message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/strsun.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBmiocack\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIwq\fR, \fBmblk_t *\fR\fImp\fR, \fBint\fR\fIcount\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrval\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIwq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Write queue associated with the read queue to send the M_IOCACK on.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
M_IOCTL message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Value to set the ioc_count of the \fBiocblk\fR(9S) to.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Value to set the ioc_rval of the \fBiocblk\fR(9S) to.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmiocack()\fR function converts an M_IOCTL message into a M_IOCACK
message and sends the resulting message upstream.
.sp
.LP
To convert the message, \fBmiocack()\fR changes the message type to M_IOCACK,
sets the 'ioc_count' and 'ioc_rval' members of the \fBiocblk\fR(9S) associated
with \fImp\fR to the passed-in values, and clears the 'ioc_error' field. If the
caller specifies a non-zero value for count, it is expected that the caller has
already set 'mp->b_cont' field to point to a message block with a length of at
least \fIcount\fR bytes.
.sp
.LP
Callers that only need to perform the message conversion, or need to perform
additional steps between the conversion and the      sending of the M_IOCACK
should use \fBmioc2ack\fR(9F).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
None.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
This function can be called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Callers must not hold any locks across a \fBmiocack()\fR that can be acquired
as part of \fBput\fR(9E) processing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmioc2ack\fR(9F), \fBput\fR(9E), \fBiocblk\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
