'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NET_PROTOCOL_WALK 9F "May 1, 2008"
.SH NAME
net_protocol_walk \- step through the list of registered network protocols
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/neti.h>

\fBnet_data_t\fR *\fBnet_protocol_walk\fR(\fBnet_data_t\fR \fInet\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 7n
value returned from a successful call to \fBnet_protocol_lookup\fR(9F).
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnet_protocol_walk()\fR function walks through all of the network
protocols that have been registered with this interface. The initial call to
\fBnet_protocol_walk()\fR should be made by passing in \fBNULL\fR as the value
for \fInet\fR. When this function returns \fBNULL\fR, the end of the list has
been reached.
.sp
.LP
A caller of \fBnet_protocol_walk()\fR is required to walk through the entire
list of network protocols, until \fBNULL\fR is returned or, when finished with
using the value returned, pass it into a call to
\fBnet_protocol_release\fR(9F).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBnet_protocol_walk()\fR function returns \fBNULL\fR when the end of the
list is returned. Otherwise, it returns a non-\fBNULL\fR value as a token for
being passed into other function calls within this interface.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBnet_protocol_walk()\fR function may be called from user,  kernel, or
interrupt context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnet_protocol_lookup\fR(9F), \fBnet_protocol_release\fR(9F),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
