'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NVLIST_LOOKUP_NVPAIR 9F "Oct 24, 2007"
.SH NAME
nvlist_lookup_nvpair, nvlist_exists \- lookup named pairs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <libnvpair.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnvlist_lookup_nvpair\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fInvl\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR,
     nvpair_t **\fInvp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBboolean_t\fR \fBnvlist_exists\fR(\fBnvlist_t *\fR\fInvl\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnvlist_lookup_nvpair()\fR function returns the nvpair with the matching
name, regardless of type. It is valid only for lists allocated with
\fBNV_UNIQUE_NAME\fR. See \fBnvlist_alloc\fR(9F).
.sp
.LP
The \fBnvlist_exists()\fR function returns success if any nvpair exists with
the given name. It is valid for all types of lists.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBnvlist_lookup_nvpair()\fR function returns 0 on success and an error
value on failure.
.sp
.LP
The \fBnvlist_exists()\fR function returns \fBB_TRUE\fR if an nvpair with the
given name exists and \fBB_FALSE\fR otherwise.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBnvlist_lookup_nvpair()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
There is an invalid argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
No matching name-value pair is found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The list was not allocated with \fBNV_UNIQUE_NAME\fR.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnvlist_lookup_nvpair\fR(3NVPAIR), \fBnvlist_alloc\fR(9F),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
