'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2015, Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\"  Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\"  You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\"  1.0 of the CDDL.
.\" 
.\"  A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\"  source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\"  http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.TH POLLHEAD_CLEAN 9F "Jun 12, 1998"
.\"
.\" A little inside joke with the above date: that's the date that the
.\" devpoll work integrated (under bug 1265897).  The original work included
.\" pollhead_clean() -- but didn't bother to document it!  With the date,
.\" we are therefore giving this man page the date it should have had in an
.\" attempt to right an historical wrong -- albeit nearly two decades after
.\" the fact.
.\"
.SH NAME
pollhead_clean \- inform the kernel that a pollhead is being deallocated
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/poll.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBpollhead_clean\fR(\fBstruct pollhead *\fR\fIphp\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIphp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Pointer to a \fBpollhead\fR structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBpollhead_clean()\fR function informs the kernel that a driver's
\fBpollhead\fR structure is about to be deallocated, usually as part of
the driver's \fBclose\fR(9E) entry point before the software state that
contains the \fBpollhead\fR is deallocated via \fBddi_soft_state_free\fR(9F).
See \fBchpoll\fR(9E), \fBpollwakeup\fR(9E) and \fBpoll\fR(2) for more detail.
.SH CONTEXT
.LP
The \fBpollhead_clean()\fR function is generally called from the context
of a \fBclose\fR(9E) entry point, but may be called from user or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBpoll\fR(2), \fBchpoll\fR(9E), \fBpollwakeup\fR(9E)

