'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POLLWAKEUP 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
pollwakeup \- inform a process that an event has occurred
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/poll.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBpollwakeup\fR(\fBstruct pollhead *\fR\fIphp\fR, \fBshort\fR \fIevent\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIphp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Pointer to a \fBpollhead\fR structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Event to notify the process about.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBpollwakeup()\fR function wakes a process waiting on the occurrence of an
event. It should be called from a driver for each occurrence of an event. The
\fBpollhead\fR structure will usually be associated with the driver's private
data structure associated with the particular minor device where the event has
occurred. See \fBchpoll\fR(9E) and \fBpoll\fR(2) for more detail.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBpollwakeup()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpoll\fR(2), \fBchpoll\fR(9E)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Driver defined locks should not be held across calls to this function.
