'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH QSIZE 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
qsize \- find the number of messages on a queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>



\fBint\fR \fBqsize\fR(\fBqueue_t *\fR\fIq\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Queue to be evaluated.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBqsize()\fR function evaluates the queue \fIq\fR and returns the number
of messages it contains.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If there are no message on the queue, \fBqsize()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise,
it returns the integer representing the number of messages on the queue.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBqsize()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
