'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_RESET_NOTIFY 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
scsi_reset_notify \- notify target driver of bus resets
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBscsi_reset_notify\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fR\fIap\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflag\fR,
     \fBvoid\fR (*\fIcallback)(caddr_t)\fR, \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIarg\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to the \fBscsi_address\fR structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflag\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A flag indicating registration or cancellation of the notification request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallback\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A pointer to the target driver's reset notification function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIarg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The callback function argument.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_reset_notify()\fR function is used by a target driver when it needs
to be notified of a bus reset. The bus reset could be issued by the transport
layer (e.g. the host bus adapter (\fBHBA)\fR driver or controller) or by
another initiator.
.sp
.LP
The  argument \fIflag\fR is used to register or cancel the notification. The
supported values for \fIflag\fR are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSI_RESET_NOTIFY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Register \fIcallback\fR as the reset notification function for the target
driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSI_RESET_CANCEL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Cancel the reset notification request.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Target drivers can find out whether the \fBHBA\fR driver and controller support
reset notification by checking the  \fBreset-notification\fR capability using
the \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F) function.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If \fIflag\fR is \fBSCSI_RESET_NOTIFY\fR, \fBscsi_reset_notify()\fR returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The notification request has been accepted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The transport layer does not support reset notification or could not accept
this request.
.RE

.sp
.LP
If \fIflag\fR is \fBSCSI_RESET_CANCEL\fR, \fBscsi_reset_notify()\fR returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The notification request has been canceled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
No notification request was registered.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_reset_notify()\fR function can be called from user, interrupt, or
kernel context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_address\fR(9S), \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
