.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Joyent, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Apr 23, 2017
.Dt SCSI_HBA_ATTACH_SETUP 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm scsi_hba_attach_setup ,
.Nm scsi_hba_detach
.Nd SCSI HBA attach and detach routines
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/scsi/scsi.h
.Ft int
.Fo scsi_hba_attach_setup
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fa "ddi_dma_attr_t *hba_dma_attr"
.Fa "scsi_hba_tran_t *hba_tran"
.Fa "int hba_flags"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo scsi_hba_detach
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos architecture specific (illumos DDI).
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa dip
Pointer to the
.Vt dev_info_t
structure that refers to the instance of the HBA device.
.It Fa hba_tran
Pointer to a
.Xr scsi_hba_tran 9S
structure.
.It Fa hba_flags
Flag modifiers.
The defined flag values are
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_CLONE ,
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_SCB ,
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_CDB ,
.Dv SCSI_HBA_HBA ,
and
.Dv SCSI_HBA_ADDR_COMPLEX .
.It Fa hba_dma_attr
Pointer to a
.Xr ddi_dma_attr 9S
structure.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Ss Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup
The
.Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup
function registers the
.Fa hba_dma_attr
DMA attributes and the
.Fa hba_tran
transport vectors of each instance of the HBA device defined by
.Fa dip .
The HBA driver can pass different DMA attributes and the transport
vectors for each instance of the device to support any constraints
imposed by the  HBA itself.
.Pp
The
.Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup
function uses the
.Vt dev_bus_ops
field in the
.Xr dev_ops 9S
structure.
The HBA driver should initialize this field to
.Dv NULL
before calling
.Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup .
.Pp
If
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_CLONE
is requested in
.Fa hba_flags ,
the
Fa hba_tran
structure is cloned once for each target that is attached to the
HBA.
The use of this flag is deprecated, drivers should instead use
.Dv SCSI_HBA_ADDR_COMPLEX
for per-target data.
.Pp
The structure is cloned before the
.Xr tran_tgt_init 9E
entry point is called to initialize a target.
At all subsequent HBA
entry points, including
.Xr tran_tgt_init 9E ,
the
.Vt scsi_hba_tran_t
structure passed as an
argument or found in a
.Xr scsi_address 9S
structure is the cloned
.Vt scsi_hba_tran_t
structure, which allows the HBA to use the
.Vt tran_tgt_private
field in the
.Vt scsi_hba_tran_t
structure to point to per-target data.
The HBA should free only the same
.Vt scsi_hba_tran_t
structure allocated when the HBA detaches.
All cloned
.Vt scsi_hba_tran_t
structures that are allocated by the system are freed by the system.
.Pp
The flags
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_CDB
and
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_SCB
are only valid
when
.Fn tran_setup_pkt
is used.
See
.Xr tran_setup_pkt 9E
for information on using these flags.
.Pp
The flag
.Dv SCSI_HBA_ADDR_COMPLEX
indicates to the system that this device handles more complex SCSI
topologies, such as SAS.
When this flag is set, the
.Xr scsi_address 9S
structure becomes opaque.
The driver must not check it for the traditional target and LUN values.
Instead, a target and LUN are identified by a unit address which can be
retrieved using the
.Xr scsi_device_unit_address 9F
function.
.Pp
When operating with the flag
.Dv SCSI_HBA_ADDR COMPLEX ,
the driver may associate private data with the
.Xr scsi_device 9S
structure.
This obviates the need and complexity around using
.Dv SCSI_HBA_TRAN_CLONE
flag.
To get and set private data, the driver can use the
.Xr scsi_device_hba_private_get 9F
and
.Xr scsi_device_hba_private_set 9F
functions.
Notably, the
.Fn scsi_device_hba_private_set
function should be used during the
.Xr tran_tgt_init 9E
entry point.
The
.Fn scsi_device_hba_private_get
function should then be used during other SCSI HBA entry points.
In addition, the
.Xr scsi_address_device 9F
function now becomes available to the driver to map between the
.Xr scsi_device 9S
and
.Xr scsi_address 9S
structures.
.Pp
The
.Dv SCSI_HBA_HBA
flag indicates that the HBA driver will only enumerate direct children
which are
.Xr iport 9
instances.
This mode of operation is recommended for device drivers as
it simplifies the management of discovered devices.
This flag is often used in tandem with
.Dv SCSI_HBA_ADDR_COMPLEX
and is recommended for all new SAS-based HBA drivers.
For more information on the management of iports and the use of target
maps, please see
.Xr iport 9 .
.Pp
The
.Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup
function attaches a number of integer-valued properties to
.Fa dip ,
unless properties of the same name are already attached to the node.
An HBA driver should retrieve these configuration parameters via
.Xr ddi_prop_get_int 9F ,
and respect any settings for features provided the HBA.
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy scsi-options
.Sy Optional SCSI configuration bits .
The following values may be bitwise-inclusive-ORed together.
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_DR
If not set, the HBA should not grant Disconnect privileges to target devices.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_TAG
If not set, the HBA should not operate in Command Tagged Queueing mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_PARITY
If not set, the HBA should not operate in parity mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_QAS
If not set, the HBA should not make use of the Quick Arbitration Select
feature.
Consult your hardware documentation to determine whether your
machine supports QAS.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_FAST
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in FAST SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_FAST20
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in FAST20 SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_FAST40
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in FAST40 SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_FAST80
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in FAST80 SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_FAST160
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in FAST160 SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_FAST320
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in FAST320 SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_WIDE
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in WIDE SCSI mode.
.It Dv SCSI_OPTIONS_SYNC
If not set, the HBA should not operate the bus in synchronous transfer mode.
.El
.It Sy scsi-reset-delay
SCSI bus or device reset recovery time, in milliseconds.
.It Sy scsi-selection-timeout
Default SCSI selection phase timeout value, in milliseconds.
Please refer to individual HBA man pages for any HBA-specific
information
.El
.Ss Fn scsi_hba_detach
The
.Fn scsi_hba_detach
function removes the reference to the DMA attributes structure and the
transport vector for the given instance of an HBA driver.
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup
function should be called from
.Xr attach 9E .
The
.Fn scsi_hba_detach
function should be called from
.Xr detach 9E .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn scsi_hba_attach_setup
and
.Fn scsi_hba_detach
functions return
.Dv DDI_SUCCESS
if the function call succeeds, and return
.Dv DDI_FAILURE
on failure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr iport 9 ,
.Xr attach 9E ,
.Xr detach 9E ,
.Xr tran_setup_pkt 9E ,
.Xr tran_tgt_init 9E ,
.Xr ddi_prop_get_int 9F ,
.Xr scsi_address_device 9F ,
.Xr scsi_device_hba_private_get 9F ,
.Xr scsi_device_hba_private_set 9F ,
.Xr scsi_device_unit_address 9F ,
.Xr ddi_dma_attr 9S ,
.Xr dev_ops 9S ,
.Xr scsi_address 9S ,
.Xr scsi_device 9S ,
.Xr scsi_hba_tran 9S
.Pp
.Rs
.%T Writing Device Drivers
.Re
.Sh NOTES
It is the HBA driver's responsibility to ensure that no more transport requests
will be taken on behalf of any SCSI target device driver after
.Fn scsi_hba_detach
is called.
