'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_FIND_SENSE_DESCR 9F "Jun 30, 2006"
.SH NAME
scsi_find_sense_descr \- find descriptor in SCSI sense data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBuint8_t *\fR\fBscsi_find_sense_descr\fR(\fBuint8_t *\fR\fIsense_buffer\fR, \fBint\fR \fIsense_buf_len\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIreq_descr_type\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsense_buffer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Pointer to a buffer containing \fBSCSI\fR descriptor sense data. The data is
expected in wire format starting at the response code.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsense_buf_len\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Integer that contains the length of sense buffer in bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIreq_descr_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Integer that contains the descriptor type value for the desired sense
descriptor.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_find_sense_descr()\fR function is used to obtain a pointer to a
specific descriptor type, specified by \fIreq_descr_type\fR, within a
descriptor sense buffer. Before returning the pointer,
\fBscsi_find_sense_descr()\fR verifies that the entire descriptor is present
based on the length provided in \fIsense_buf_len\fR.
.sp
.LP
Any value for \fIreq_descr_type\fR can be requested. The following descriptor
types are already defined:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define DESCR_INFORMATION         0x00
#define DESCR_COMMAND_SPECIFIC    0x01
#define DESCR_SENSE_KEY_SPECIFIC  0x02
#define DESCR_FRU                 0x03
#define DESCR_STREAM_COMMANDS     0x04
#define DESCR_BLOCK_COMMANDS      0x05
#define DESCR_OSD_OID             0x06
#define DESCR_OSD_RESP_INTEGRITY  0x07
#define DESCR_OSD_ATTR_ID         0x08
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Drivers should use \fBscsi_validate_sense\fR(9F) to ensure that the sense
buffer contains valid descriptor sense data.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_find_sense_descr()\fR function returns a pointer to a sense
descriptor of the requested type if a descriptor of that type exists. If no
such descriptor exists, \fBscsi_find_sense_descr()\fR returns \fINULL\fR.
.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_find_sense_descr()\fR function can be called from user or interrupt
context.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_ext_sense_fields\fR(9F), \fBscsi_sense_asc\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_sense_ascq\fR(9F), \fBscsi_sense_cmdspecific_uint64\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_sense_info_uint64\fR(9F), \fBscsi_sense_key\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_validate_sense\fR(9F)
