'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_SLAVE 9F "Sep 27, 2002"
.SH NAME
scsi_slave \- utility for SCSI target drivers to establish the presence of a
target
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBscsi_slave\fR(\fBstruct scsi_device *\fR\fIdevp\fR, \fBint\fR \fB(*\fRcallback\fB)(void)\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_slave()\fR function is obsolete. This function has been replaced by
\fBscsi_probe\fR(9F).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdevp\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a \fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallback\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a callback function, \fBNULL_FUNC\fR or \fBSLEEP_FUNC\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_slave()\fR checks for the presence of a \fBSCSI\fR device. Target
drivers may use this function in their \fBprobe\fR(9E) routines.
\fBscsi_slave()\fR determines if the device is present by using a Test Unit
Ready command followed by an Inquiry command. If \fBscsi_slave()\fR is
successful, it will fill in the \fBscsi_inquiry\fR structure, which is the
\fBsd_inq\fR member of the \fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure, and return
\fBSCSI_PROBE_EXISTS\fR. This information can be used to determine if the
target driver has probed the correct SCSI device type. \fIcallback\fR indicates
what the allocator routines should do when \fBDMA \fRresources are not
available:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBNULL_FUNC\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Do not wait for resources. Return a \fINULL\fR pointer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSLEEP_FUNC\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Wait indefinitely for resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBOther Values\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
\fIcallback\fR points to a function which is called when resources may have
become available. \fIcallback\fR \fBmust\fR return either \fB0\fR (indicating
that it attempted to allocate resources but again failed to do so), in which
case it is put back on a list to be called again later, or \fB1\fR indicating
either success in allocating resources or indicating that it no longer cares
for a retry.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_slave()\fR returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSIPROBE_NOMEM\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
No space available for structures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSIPROBE_EXISTS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Device exists and inquiry data is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSIPROBE_NONCCS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Device exists but inquiry data is not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSIPROBE_FAILURE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Polled command failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSCSIPROBE_NORESP\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 22n
No response to \fBTEST UNIT READY\fR.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_slave()\fR is normally called from the target driver's \fBprobe\fR(9E)
or \fBattach\fR(9E) routine. In any case, this routine should not be called
from interrupt context, because it can sleep waiting for memory to be
allocated.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability Level	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBattach\fR(9E), \fBprobe\fR(9E),
\fBddi_iopb_alloc\fR(9F), \fBmakecom\fR(9F), \fBscsi_dmaget\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(9F), \fBscsi_pktalloc\fR(9F), \fBscsi_poll\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_probe\fR(9F), \fBscsi_device\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
 \fIANSI Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_slave()\fR function is obsolete and will be discontinued in a
future release. This function has been replaced by \fBscsi_probe\fR(9F).
