'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_ERRMSG 9F "Jan 16, 2006"
.SH NAME
scsi_errmsg \- display a SCSI request sense message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBvoid\fR \fBscsi_errmsg\fR(\fBstruct scsi_device *\fR\fIdevp\fR, \fBstruct scsi_pkt *\fR\fIpktp\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIdrv_name\fR, \fBint\fR \fIseverity\fR, \fBdaddr_t\fR \fIblkno\fR, \fBdaddr_t\fR \fIerr_blkno\fR,
     \fBstruct scsi_key_strings *\fR\fIcmdlist\fR, \fBstruct scsi_extended_sense *\fR\fIsensep\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdevp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to the  \fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpktp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a \fBscsi_pkt\fR(9S) structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdrv_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
String used by \fBscsi_log\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIseverity\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Error severity level, maps to severity strings below.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIblkno\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Requested block number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIerr_blkno\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Error block number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcmdlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An array of \fBSCSI \fRcommand description strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsensep\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A pointer to a \fBscsi_extended_sense\fR(9S) structure.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_errmsg()\fR function interprets the request sense information in
the \fIsensep\fR pointer and generates a standard message that is displayed
using \fBscsi_log\fR(9F). The first line of the message is always a
\fBCE_WARN\fR, with the continuation lines being \fBCE_CONT\fR. \fIsensep\fR
may be \fINULL\fR, in which case no sense key or vendor information is
displayed.
.sp
.LP
The driver should make the determination as to when to call this function based
on the severity of the failure and the severity level that the driver wants to
report.
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure denoted by \fIdevp\fR supplies the
identification of the device that requested the display. \fIseverity\fR selects
which string is used in the "Error Level:" reporting, according to the
following table:
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c
l l l .
\fBSeverity Value:\fR	\fBString:\fR	
\fBSCSI_ERR_ALL\fR	\fBAll\fR	
\fBSCSI_ERR_UNKNOWN\fR	\fBUnknown\fR	
\fBSCSI_ERR_INFO\fR	\fBInformational\fR	
\fBSCSI_ERR_RECOVERE\fR	\fBRecovered\fR	
\fBSCSI_ERR_RETRYABL\fR	\fBRetryable\fR	
\fBSCSI_ERR_FATAL\fR	\fBFatal\fR	
.TE

.sp
.LP
\fIblkno\fR is the block number of the original request that generated the
error. \fIerr_blkno\fR is the block number where the error occurred.
\fIcmdlist\fR is a mapping table for translating the \fBSCSI \fRcommand code in
\fIpktp\fR to the actual command string.
.sp
.LP
The \fIcmdlist\fR is described in the structure below:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct scsi_key_strings {
        int key;
        char *message;
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For a basic \fBSCSI\fR disk, the following list is appropriate:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
static struct scsi_key_strings scsi_cmds[] = {
        0x00, "test unit ready",
        0x01, "rezero/rewind",
        0x03, "request sense",
        0x04, "format",
        0x07, "reassign",
        0x08, "read",
        0x0a, "write",
        0x0b, "seek",
        0x12, "inquiry",
        0x15, "mode select",
        0x16, "reserve",
        0x17, "release",
        0x18, "copy",
        0x1a, "mode sense",
        0x1b, "start/stop",
        0x1e, "door lock",
        0x28, "read(10)",
        0x2a, "write(10)",
        0x2f, "verify",
        0x37, "read defect data",
        0x3b, "write buffer",
        -1, NULL
};
.fi
.in -2

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_errmsg()\fR function may be called from user, interrupt, or kernel
context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRGenerating error information.
.sp
.LP
This entry:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
scsi_errmsg(devp, pkt, "sd", SCSI_ERR_INFO, bp->b_blkno,
         err_blkno, sd_cmds, rqsense);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Generates:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBWARNING: /sbus@1,f8000000/esp@0,800000/sd@1,0 (sd1):
Error for Command: read Error Level: Informational
Requested Block: 23936 Error Block: 23936
Vendor: QUANTUM Serial Number: 123456
Sense Key:  Unit Attention
ASC: 0x29 (reset), ASCQ: 0x0, FRU: 0x0\fR
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcmn_err\fR(9F), \fBscsi_log\fR(9F), \fBscsi_device\fR(9S),
\fBscsi_extended_sense\fR(9S), \fBscsi_pkt\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
