'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\"  Copyright (c) 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_IFGETCAP 9F "May 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
scsi_ifgetcap, scsi_ifsetcap \- get/set SCSI transport capability
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint\fR \fBscsi_ifgetcap\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fR\fIap\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIcap\fR, \fBint\fR \fIwhom\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBscsi_ifsetcap\fR(\fBstruct scsi_address *\fR\fIap\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIcap\fR, \fBint\fR \fIvalue\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIwhom\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Pointer to the \fBscsi_address\fR structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Pointer to the string capability identifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Defines the new state of the capability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIwhom\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Determines if all targets or only the specified target is affected.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_ifsetcap()\fR function is used by target drivers to set the
capabilities of the host adapter driver. The \fIcap\fR pointer is a name-value
pair identified by a null-terminated character string and the integer value of
the \fIcap\fR. The current value of the capability can be retrieved with the
\fBscsi_ifgetcap()\fR function. If the \fIwhom\fR value is \fB0\fR, all target
drivers are affected. Otherwise, the \fBscsi_address\fR structure pointed to by
\fIap\fR is the only target that is affected.
.sp
.LP
The driver should confirm that \fBscsi_ifsetcap()\fR and \fBscsi_ifsetcap()\fR
functions are called with a \fIcap\fR that points to a capability which is
supported by the device.
.sp
.LP
The following capabilities have been defined:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdma-max\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Maximum \fBdma\fR transfer size that is supported by the host adapter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdma-max-arch\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Maximum \fBdma\fR transfer size that is supported by system. Takes the host
adapter and system architecture into account. This is useful for target drivers
which do not support partial \fBDMA\fRs on systems which do not have an
\fBIOMMU\fR. In this case, the \fBDMA\fR can also be limited by the host
adapters "scatter/gather" list constraints.
.sp
The "\fBdma-max-arch\fR" capability can not be set. It is implemented with this
command and does not rely on a \fBtran_getcap\fR(9E) response from the HBA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmsg-out\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Message out capability that is supported by the host adapter: \fB0\fR disables,
\fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisconnect\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Disconnect capability that is supported by the host adapter: \fB0\fR disables,
\fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsynchronous\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Synchronous data transfer capability that is supported by the host adapter:
\fB0\fR disables, \fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwide-xfer\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Wide transfer capability that is supported by the host adapter: \fB0\fR
disables, \fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBparity\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Parity checking capability that is supported by host adapter: \fB0\fR disables,
\fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBinitiator-id\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host bus address that is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBuntagged-qing\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host adapter capability that supports internal queueing of commands without
tagged queueing: \fB0\fR disables, \fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtagged-qing\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host adapter capability that supports queuing: \fB0\fR disables, \fB1\fR
enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBauto-rqsense\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host adapter capability that supports auto request sense on check conditions:
\fB0\fR disables, \fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsector-size\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability that is set by the target driver to inform the \fBHBA\fR of the
granularity, in bytes, of the \fBDMA\fR breakup. The \fBHBA\fR \fBDMA\fR
attributes structure is set to reflect the byte total of this setting. See
\fBddi_dma_attr\fR(9S). The \fBsector-size\fR
should be set to the size of the physical disk sector. The capability defaults
to 512 bytes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtotal-sectors\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability that is set by the target driver to inform the \fBHBA\fR of the
total number of sectors on the device returned by the \fBSCSI\fR \fBget
capacity\fR command. This capability must be set before the target driver
``gets'' the \fBgeometry\fR capability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBgeometry\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability that returns the \fBHBA\fR geometry of a target disk. The target
driver sets the \fBtotal-sectors\fR capability before ``getting'' the geometry
capability. The geometry is returned as a 32-bit value. The upper 16 bits
represent the number of heads per cylinder. The lower 16 bits represent the
number of sectors per track. The geometry capability cannot be ``set''.
.sp
If geometry is not relevant or appropriate for the target disk,
\fBscsi_ifgetcap()\fR can return \fB-1\fR to indicate that the geometry is not
defined. For example, if the \fBHBA\fR BIOS supports Logical Block Addressing
for the target disk, \fBscsi_ifgetcap()\fR returns \fB-1\fR. Attempts to
retreive the "virtual geometry" from the target driver, such as the
\fBDKIOCG_VIRTGEOM\fR ioctl, will fail. See \fBdkio\fR(7I) for more information
about \fBDKIOCG_VIRTGEOM\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreset-notification\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host adapter capability that supports bus reset notification: \fB0\fR disables,
\fB1\fR enables. See \fBscsi_reset_notify\fR(9F).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlinked-cmds\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host adapter capability that supports linked commands: \fB0\fR disables,
\fB1\fR enables.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBqfull-retries\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability that enables or disables \fBQUEUE\fR \fBFULL\fR handling. If
\fB0\fR, the \fBHBA\fR will not retry a command when a \fBQUEUE\fR \fBFULL\fR
status is returned. If the value is greater than \fB0\fR, the \fBHBA\fR driver
retries the command a specified number of times at an interval determined by
the \fBqfull-retry-interval\fR. The range for \fBqfull-retries\fR is
\fB0-255\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBqfull-retry-interval\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability that sets the retry interval in milliseconds (\fBms\fR) for commands
completed with a \fBQUEUE\fR \fBFULL\fR status. The range for
\fBqfull-retry-intervals\fR is \fB0-1000\fR \fBms\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlun-reset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability that is created with a value of zero by \fBHBA\fR drivers that
support the \fBRESET_LUN\fR flag in the \fBtran_reset\fR(9E) function. If it
exists, the \fBlun-reset\fR value can be set to \fB1\fR by target drivers to
allow the use of \fBLOGICAL UNIT RESET\fR on a specific target instance. If
\fBlun-reset\fR does not exist or has a value of zero, \fBscsi_reset\fR(9F) is
prevented from passing the \fBRESET_LUN\fR flag to \fBtran_reset()\fR function
of the \fBHBA\fR driver. If \fBlun-reset\fR exists and has a value of \fB1\fR,
the \fBtran_reset()\fR function of the \fBHBA\fR driver can be called with the
\fBRESET_LUN\fR flag.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBinterconnect-type\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Capability held in the \fBtran_interconnect_type\fR element of struct
\fBscsi_hba_tran\fR that indicates the \fBHBA\fR transport interconnect type .
The integer value of the interconnect type of the transport is defined in the
\fBservices.h\fR header file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmax-cdb-length\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Host adapter capability of the maximum supported \fBCDB\fR (Command Descriptor
Block) length. The target driver asks for the capability at attach time. If the
\fBHBA\fR driver supports the capability, the maximum length of the \fBCDB\fR
is returned in bytes. The target driver can then use that value to determine
which \fBCDB\fR is used for the \fBHBA\fR.
.sp
If the \fBHBA\fR driver does not support the \fBmax-cdb-length\fR capability,
the default value of the target driver is used for the \fBCDB\fR determination.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_ifsetcap()\fR function returns:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
If the capability was successfully set to the new value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
If the capability is not variable.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
If the capability was not defined, or setting the capability to a new value
failed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_ifgetcap()\fR function returns the current value of a capability,
or:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\(mi1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
If the capability was not defined.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBscsi_ifgetcap()\fR
.sp
.in +2
.nf
if (scsi_ifgetcap(&sd->sd_address, "auto-rqsense", 1) == 1) {
   un->un_arq_enabled = 1;
} else {
   un->un_arq_enabled =
       ((scsi_ifsetcap(&sd->sd_address, "auto-rqsense", 1, 1) == 1) ?
             1 : 0);
}

if (scsi_ifsetcap(&devp->sd_address, "tagged-qing", 1, 1) == 1) {
	  un->un_dp->options |= SD_QUEUEING;
	  un->un_throttle = MAX_THROTTLE;
} else if (scsi_ifgetcap(&devp->sd_address, "untagged-qing", 0) == 1) {
	  un->un_dp->options |= SD_QUEUEING;
	  un->un_throttle = 3;
} else {
	  un->un_dp->options &= ~SD_QUEUEING;
	  un->un_throttle = 1;
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
These functions can be called from user, interrupt, or kernel context.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtran_reset\fR(9E), \fBscsi_hba_lookup_capstr\fR(9F), \fBscsi_reset\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_reset_notify\fR(9F), \fBddi_dma_attr\fR(9S),
\fBscsi_address\fR(9S), \fBscsi_arq_status\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
