.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd Sep 16, 2016
.Dt USB_PIPE_XOPEN 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usb_pipe_open ,
.Nm usb_pipe_xopen
.Nd Open a USB pipe to a device
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba.h
.Ft int
.Fo usb_pipe_open
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fa "usb_ep_descr_t *endpoint"
.Fa "usb_pipe_policy_t *pipe_policy"
.Fa "usb_flags_t flags"
.Fa "usb_pipe_handle_t *pipe_handle"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo usb_pipe_xopen
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fa "usb_ep_xdescr_t *extended_endpoint"
.Fa "usb_pipe_policy_t *pipe_policy"
.Fa "usb_flags_t flags"
.Fa "usb_pipe_handle_t *pipe_handle"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa dip
Pointer to the device's
.Sy dev_info
structure.
.It Fa endpoint
Pointer to endpoint descriptor.
.It Fa extended_endpoint
Pointer to an extended endpoint descriptor retrieved from calling
.Xr usb_ep_xdescr_fill 9F .
.It Fa pipe_policy
Pointer to
.Em pipe_policy.
.Em pipe_policy
provides hints on pipe usage.
.It Fa flags
.Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
is only flag that is recognized. Wait for memory resources if
not immediately available.
.It Fa pipe_handle
Address to where new pipe handle is returned. (The handle is opaque.)
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A pipe is a logical connection to an endpoint on a USB device. The
.Fn usb_pipe_xopen
function creates such a logical connection and returns an
initialized handle which refers to that connection.
.Pp
The
.Em USB 3.0
specification defines four endpoint types, each with a
corresponding type of pipe. Each of the four types of pipes uses its physical
connection resource differently. They are:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy Control Pipe
Used for bursty, non-periodic, reliable, host-initiated request/response
communication, such as for command/status operations. These are guaranteed to
get approximately 10% of frame time and will get more if needed and if
available, but there is no guarantee on transfer promptness. Bidirectional.
.It Sy Bulk Pipe
Used for large, reliable, non-time-critical data transfers. These get the bus
on a bandwidth-available basis. Unidirectional. Sample uses include printer
data.
.It Sy Interrupt Pipe
Used for sending or receiving small amounts of reliable data infrequently but
with bounded service periods, as for interrupt handling. Unidirectional.
.It Sy Isochronous Pipe
Used for large, unreliable, time-critical data transfers. Boasts a guaranteed
constant data rate as long as there is data, but there are no retries of failed
transfers. Interrupt and isochronous data are together guaranteed 90% of frame
time as needed. Unidirectional. Sample uses include audio.
.El
.Pp
The type of endpoint to which a pipe connects (and therefore the pipe type) is
defined by the
.Sy bmAttributes
field of that pipe's endpoint descriptor.
.Po
See
.Xr usb_ep_descr 9S
.Pc .
.Pp
Prior to the
.Em USB 3.0
specification, only the
.Xr usb_ep_descr 9S
was required to identify all of the attributes of a given pipe. Starting
with
.Em USB 3.0
there are additional endpoint companion descriptors required to open a
pipe. To support SuperSpeed devices, the new
.Fn usb_pipe_xopen
function must be used rather than the older
.Fn usb_pipe_open
function. The
.Xr usb_ep_xdescr 9S
structure can be automatically filled out and obtained by calling the
.Xr usb_ep_xdescr_fill 9F
function.
.Pp
Opens to interrupt and isochronous pipes can fail
if the required bandwidth cannot be guaranteed.
.Pp
The polling interval for periodic (interrupt or isochronous) pipes, carried by
the endpoint argument's bInterval field, must be within range. Valid ranges
are:
.Pp
Full speed: range of 1-255 maps to 1-255 ms.
.Pp
Low speed: range of 10-255 maps to 10-255 ms.
.Pp
High speed: range of 1-16 maps to (2**(bInterval-1)) * 125us.
.Pp
Super speed: range of 1-16 maps to (2**(bInterval-1)) * 125us.
.Pp
Adequate bandwidth during transfers is guaranteed for all periodic pipes which
are opened successfully. Interrupt and isochronous pipes have guaranteed
latency times, so bandwidth for them is allocated when they are opened.
.Po
Please
refer to Sections
.Em 4.4.7
and
.Em 4.4.8
of the
.Em USB 3.1
specification
which address isochronous and interrupt transfers.
.Pc
Opens of interrupt and isochronous pipes fail if inadequate bandwidth is
available to support their guaranteed latency time. Because periodic
pipe bandwidth is allocated on pipe open, open periodic pipes only when
needed.
.Pp
The bandwidth required by a device varies based on polling interval, the
maximum packet size
.Pq Sy wMaxPacketSize
and the device speed. Unallocated
bandwidth remaining for new devices depends on the bandwidth already allocated
for previously opened periodic pipes.
.Pp
The
.Em pipe_policy
parameter provides a hint as to pipe usage and must be
specified. It is a
.Em usb_pipe_policy_t
which contains the following fields:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
uchar_t         pp_max_async_reqs:
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Sy pp_max_async_reqs
member is a hint indicating how many asynchronous operations requiring
their own kernel thread will be concurrently in progress, the highest
number of threads ever needed at one time.  Allow at least one for
synchronous callback handling and as many as are needed to accommodate
the anticipated parallelism of asynchronous* calls to the following
functions:
.Xr usb_pipe_close 9F ,
.Xr usb_set_cfg 9F ,
.Xr usb_set_alt_if 9F ,
.Xr usb_clr_feature 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_reset 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_drain_reqs 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_stop_intr_polling 9F ,
and
.Xr usb_pipe_stop_isoc_polling 9F .
.Pp
Setting to too small a value can deadlock the pipe.  Asynchronous calls
are calls made without the
.Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
flag being passed.  Note that
a large number of callbacks becomes an issue mainly when blocking
functions are called from callback handlers.
.Pp
The control pipe to the default endpoints (endpoints for both directions with
addr 0, sometimes called the default control pipe or default pipe) comes
pre-opened by the hub. A client driver receives the default control pipe handle
through
.Xr usb_get_dev_data 9F .
A client driver cannot open the default
control pipe manually. Note that the same control pipe may be shared among
several drivers when a device has multiple interfaces and each interface is
operated by its own driver.
.Pp
All explicit pipe opens are exclusive; attempts to open an opened pipe fail.
.Pp
On success, the pipe_handle argument points to an opaque handle of the opened
pipe. On failure, it is set to NULL.
.Sh CONTEXT
May be called from user or kernel context regardless of arguments. May also be
called from interrupt context if the
.Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
option is not set.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy USB_SUCCESS
Open succeeded.
.It Sy USB_NO_RESOURCES
Insufficient resources were available.
.It Sy USB_NO_BANDWIDTH
Insufficient bandwidth available. (isochronous and interrupt pipes).
.It Sy USB_INVALID_CONTEXT
Called from interrupt handler with USB_FLAGS_SLEEP set.
.It Sy USB_INVALID_ARGS
dip and/or pipe_handle is NULL. Pipe_policy is NULL.
.It Sy USB_INVALID_PERM
Endpoint is NULL, signifying the default control pipe. A client driver cannot
open the default control pipe.
.It Sy USB_NOT_SUPPORTED
Isochronous or interrupt endpoint with maximum packet size of zero is not
supported.
.It Sy USB_HC_HARDWARE_ERROR
Host controller is in an error state.
.It Sy USB_FAILURE
Pipe is already open. Host controller not in an operational state. Polling
interval
.Pq Sy Bep_descr bInterval No field
is out of range (intr or isoc pipes).
.Pp
The device referred to by
.Fa dip
is at least a SuperSpeed device and the older
.Fn usb_pipe_open
function was used.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
usb_ep_data_t *ep_data;
usb_ep_xdescr_t ep_xdescr;
usb_pipe_policy_t policy;
usb_pipe_handle_t pipe;
usb_client_dev_data_t *reg_data;
uint8_t interface = 1;
uint8_t alternate = 1;
uint8_t first_ep_number = 0;

/* Initialize pipe policy. */
bzero(policy, sizeof(usb_pipe_policy_t));
policy.pp_max_async_requests = 2;

/* Get tree of descriptors for device. */
if (usb_get_dev_data(dip, USBDRV_VERSION, &reg_data,
    USB_FLAGS_ALL_DESCR, 0) != USB_SUCCESS) {
        ...
}

/* Get first interrupt-IN endpoint. */
ep_data = usb_lookup_ep_data(dip, reg_data, interface, alternate,
    first_ep_number, USB_EP_ATTR_INTR, USB_EP_DIR_IN);
if (ep_data == NULL) {
        ...
}

/* Translate the ep_data into the filled in usb_ep_xdescr_t */
if (usb_ep_xdescr_fill(USB_EP_XDESCR_CURRENT_VERSION, dip,
    ep_data, &ep_xdescr) != USB_SUCCESS) {
       ...
}

/* Open the pipe.  Get handle to pipe back in 5th argument. */
if (usb_pipe_open(dip, &ep_data.ep_descr
    &policy, USB_FLAGS_SLEEP, &pipe) != USB_SUCCESS) {
        ...
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usb_get_alt_if 9F ,
.Xr usb_get_cfg 9F ,
.Xr usb_get_dev_data 9F ,
.Xr usb_get_status 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_bulk_xfer 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_close 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_ctrl_xfer 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_get_state 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_intr_xfer 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_isoc_xfer 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_reset 9F ,
.Xr usb_pipe_set_private 9F ,
.Xr usb_callback_flags 9S ,
.Xr usb_ep_descr 9S
.Rs
.%T Universal Serial Bus 3.1 Specification
.%U http://www.usb.org
.Re
