'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH USB_GET_DEV_DATA 9F "Jan 5, 2004"
.SH NAME
usb_get_dev_data, usb_free_dev_data, usb_free_descr_tree, usb_print_descr_tree
\- Retrieve device configuration information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/usb/usba.h>



\fBint\fR \fBusb_get_dev_data\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBusb_client_dev_data_t **\fR\fIdev_data\fR,
     \fBusb_reg_parse_lvl_t\fR \fIparse_level\fR, \fBusb_flags_t\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBusb_free_dev_data\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBusb_client_dev_data_t *\fR\fIdev_data\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBusb_free_descr_tree\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBusb_client_dev_data_t *\fR\fIdev_data\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBusb_print_descr_tree\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIdip\fR, \fBusb_client_dev_data_t *\fR\fIdev_data\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_get_dev_data()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Pointer to device's dev_info structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev_data\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Address in which pointer to info is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIparse_level\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Portion of device represented in the tree of parsed descriptors. See below for
possible usb_reg_parse_lvl_t values and explanations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Not used.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_free_dev_data()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to device's dev_info structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev_data\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to usb_client_dev_data_t to be freed.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_free_descr_tree()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to device's dev_info structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev_data\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to usb_client_dev_data_t containing the descriptor tree to free.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_print_descr_tree()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to device's dev_info structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev_data\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Pointer to usb_client_dev_data_t containing the descriptor tree to display
on-screen.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_get_dev_data()\fR function interrogates a device and returns its
configuration information in a usb_client_dev_data_t structure. Most USBA
functions require information which comes from a usb_client_dev_data_t, and all
other functions in this man page operate on this structure. Please see
\fBusb_client_dev_data(9S)\fR for a full content description. Pass the
usb_client_dev_data_t structure to \fBusb_client_detach\fR(9F) to completely
deallocate it.
.sp
.LP
A descriptor tree is included in the information returned. The
usb_reg_parse_lvl_t type represents the extent of the device to be
represented by the returned tree (2nd arg to usb_get_dev_data) or what is
actually represented in the returned tree (dev_parse_level field of the
returned usb_client_dev_data_t). It has the following possible values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_PARSE_LVL_NONE\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Build no tree. dev_n_cfg  returns 0, dev_cfg and dev_curr_cfg  are returned
NULL, and  the dev_curr_xxx fields are invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_PARSE_LVL_IF\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
If configuration number and interface properties are set (as when different
interfaces are viewed by the OS as different device instances), parse
configured interface only. If an OS device instance is set up to represent an
entire physical device, USB_PARSE_LVL_IF works like USB_PARSE_LVL_ALL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_PARSE_LVL_CFG\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Parse entire configuration of configured interface only. Behaves similarly to
USB_PARSE_LVL_IF, except that entire configuration is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_PARSE_LVL_ALL\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Parse entire device (all configurations), even when driver is bound to a single
interface of a single configuration.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_free_dev_data()\fR function undoes what \fBusb_get_dev_data()\fR set
up.  It releases memory for all strings, descriptors, and trees set up by
\fBusb_get_dev_data()\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_free_descr_tree()\fR function frees the descriptor tree of its
usb_client_dev_data_t argument, while leaving the rest of the information
intact. The intent is for drivers to free memory after copying needed
descriptor information from the tree. Upon return, the following
usb_client_dev_data_t fields  are modified as follows: dev_cfg is NULL,
dev_n_cfg  is zero and dev_parse_level  is USB_PARSE_LVL_NONE. Additionally,
dev_curr_cfg is NULL and dev_curr_if is invalid.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_print_descr_tree()\fR function is an easy-to-use diagnostic aid
which dumps the descriptor tree to the screen when the system is verbose booted
(\fBboot\fR \fB-v\fR). Output is spaced with blank lines for readability and
provides you with an on-screen look at what a device has to offer.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_get_dev_data()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_SUCCESS\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Registration is successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_INVALID_ARGS\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
\fIdip\fR or \fIdev_data\fR is \fBNULL\fR. \fIparse_level\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_INVALID_CONTEXT\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Called from interrupt context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_INVALID_VERSION\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
\fBusb_client_attach\fR(9F) was not called first.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_FAILURE\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Bad descriptor info or other internal error.
.RE

.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_free_dev_data()\fR: None
.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_free_descr_tree()\fR: None, but no operation occurs if \fIdip\fR
and/or \fIdev_data\fR are NULL.
.sp
.LP
For \fBusb_print_descr_tree()\fR:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_SUCCESS\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Descriptor tree dump is successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_INVALID_ARGS\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
\fIdev_data\fR or \fIdip\fR are NULL.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_INVALID_CONTEXT\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Called from interrupt context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_FAILURE\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Other error.
.RE

.SH CONTEXT
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_get_dev_data()\fR and \fBusb_print_descr_tree()\fR functions may be
called from user or kernel context.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_free_dev_data()\fR and \fBusb_free_descr_tree()\fR functions may be
called from user, kernel or interrupt context.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.in +2
.nf
In this example, assume a device has the configuration shown
below, and the endpoint of config 2, iface 1, alt 1
which supports intr IN transfers needs to be found.
Config 2, iface 1 is the "default" config/iface for the
current OS device node.

      config 1
          iface 0
              endpt 0
      config 2
          iface 0
          iface 1
              alt 0
                  endpt 0
                      cv 0
              alt 1
                  endpt 0
                  endpt 1
                      cv 0
                  endpt 2
              alt 2
                  endpt 0
                      cv 0

      usb_client_dev_data_t *dev_data;
      usb_ep_descr_t ep_descr;
      usb_ep_data_t *ep_tree_node;
      uint8_t interface = 1;
      uint8_t alternate = 1;
      uint8_t first_ep_number = 0;

      /*
       * We want default config/iface, so specify USB__PARSE_LVL_IF.
       * Default config will be returned as dev_cfg[0].
      /
        if (usb_get_dev_data(dip, &dev_data,
          USB_PARSE_LVL_IF, 0) != USB_SUCCESS) {
              cmn_err (CE_WARN,
                  "%s%d: Couldn't get USB configuration descr tree",
                  ddi_driver_name(dip), ddi_get_instance(dip));

              return (USB_FAILURE);
      }

      ep_tree_node = usb_lookup_ep_data(dip, dev_data, interface,
           alternate, first_ep_number, USB_EP_ATTR_INTR, USB_EP_DIR_IN);
      if (ep_tree_node != NULL) {
          ep_descr = ep_tree_node->ep_descr;
      } else {
              cmn_r (CE_WARN,
                  "%s%d: Device is missing intr-IN endpoint",
                  ddi_driver_name(dip), ddi_get_instance(dip));

              usb_free_descr_tree(dip, &dev_data);

              return (USB_FAILURE);
      }

.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	PCI-based systems
_
Interface stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBusb_client_attach\fR(9F), \fBusb_get_alt_if\fR(9F),
\fBusb_get_cfg\fR(9F), \fBusb_get_string_descr\fR(9F),
\fBusb_lookup_ep_data\fR(9F), \fBusb_parse_data\fR(9F),
\fBusb_pipe_open\fR(9F), \fBusb_cfg_descr\fR(9S),
\fBusb_client_dev_data(9S)\fR, \fBusb_ep_descr\fR(9S), \fBusb_if_descr\fR(9S),
\fBusb_string_descr\fR(9S)
