.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Sep 16, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_BIND_ROOT_HUB 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hubdi_bind_root_hub ,
.Nm usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
.Nd bind and unbind the root USB hub
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hubdi.h
.Ft int
.Fo usba_hubdi_bind_root_hub
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fa "uchar_t *hub_descr"
.Fa "size_t descr_len"
.Fa "usb_dev_descr_t *dev_descr"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This is a private function that is not part of the stable DDI. It may be
removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa dip
Pointer to the device's
.Sy dev_info
structure.
.It Fa hub_descr
Pointer to a byte array that contains the standard descriptors for a USB
Hub device.
.It Fa descr_len
The length in bytes of the
.Fa hub_descr
byte array.
.It Fa dev_descr
A filled in standard USB device descriptor.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn usba_hubdi_bind_root_hub
and
.Fn usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
functions are used to bind and unbind the root USB hub that is a part of
every HCD driver. See
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E
for more information on this relationship.
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hubdi_root_bind_driver
is used after calling the
.Xr usba_hcdi_register 9F
function during a device's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point.
.Pp
Because the root hub is generally a virtual hub, the HCD driver is
responsible for making it appear to the system as a normal USB hub.
.Pp
The contents of the
.Fa hub_descr
should be the standard USB Hub class-specific descriptor. This hub
descriptor should match a hub of a similar class of speed. For example,
with the xhci controller, a USB 3.x Hub class-specific descriptor is
used, where as for the ehci controller, a USB 2.x Hub class-specific
descriptor is used. For more information, see the USB 3.1
specification, section 10.15.2
.Em Class-specific Descriptors .
.Pp
Similarly, the contents of the
.Fa dev_descr
need to be a filled in USB device descriptor that indicates that the
root hub corresponds to the appropriate USB generation. For more
information on the contents, see
.Xr usb_dev_descr 9S
and the USB 3.1 specification, section 10.15.1
.Em Standard Descriptors for Hub Class .
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
function is used to detach the root hub associated with the HCD driver.
This should be called during a device's
.Xr detach 9E
routine before calling
.Xr usba_hcdi_unregister .
.Pp
If a call to the
.Fn usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
function fails during a device's
.Xr detach 9E
function, then it should fail the call to
.Xr detach 9E .
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn usba_hubdi_bind_root_hub
function should only be called during a device's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point.
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
function should only be called during a device's
.Xr detach 9E entry point.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn usba_hubdi_bind_root_hub
and
.Fn usba_hubdi_unbind_root_hub
functions return
.Sy USB_SUCCESS .
Otherwise, they return
.Sy USB_FAILURE
to indicate that they could not proceed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr attach 9E ,
.Xr detach 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_register 9F ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_unregister 9F ,
.Xr usb_dev_Descr 9S
