.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Sep 16, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_REGISTER 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hcdi_register ,
.Nm usba_hcdi_unregister
.Nd register and unregister HCD driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hcdi.h
.Ft int
.Fo usba_hcdi_register
.Fa "usba_hcdi_register_args_t *args"
.Fa "uint_t flags"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo usba_hcdi_unregister
.Fa "dev_info_t *dip"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This is a private function that is not part of the stable DDI. It may be
removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa args
A pointer to a filled out registration structure. See
.Xr usba_hcdi_register_args_t 9S
for the members to fill in.
.It Fa flags
Should be set to
.Sy 0 .
.It Fa dip
Pointer to the device's
.Sy dev_info
structure.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_register
and
.Fn usba_hcdi_unregister
functions are used to register and unregister a USB HCDI driver from the
USBA framework.
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_register
function is called during a device driver's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point after it has finished initializing the device. After this
function successfuly returns, device drivers should assume that the
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops 9S
functions may be called at any time.
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_unregister
function should be called during a driver's
.Xr detach 9E
entry point after it has unbound its root hub, but before the remainder
of the device's state is torn down. After calling the
.Fn usba_hcdi_unregister
function, the driver will receive no more function calls to its
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops 9S
entry points.
.Pp
For more information on the initialization and finalization path of a
USB HCD driver, see
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E .
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_register
function should only be called from a driver's
.Xr attach 9E
entry point.
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_unregister
function should only be called frm a driver's
.Xr detach 9E
entry point.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn usba_hcdi_register
function returns
.Sy USB_SUCCESS .
Otherwise
.Sy USB_FAILURE
is returned to indicate that the device was not registered.
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_unregister
function does not define any return values and always succeeds.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr attach 9E ,
.Xr detach 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops 9S ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_register_args_t 9S
