.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 7, 2016
.Dt USBA_ALLOC_HCDI_OPS 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_alloc_hcdi_ops ,
.Nm usba_free_hcdi_ops
.Nd allocate and free USB HCD interface operations structure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hcdi.h
.Ft "usba_hcdi_ops_t *"
.Fo usba_alloc_hcdi_ops
.Fa void
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo usba_free_hcdi_ops
.Fa "usba_hcdi_ops_t *ops"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This is a private function that is not part of the stable DDI. It may be
removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMATERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa ops
Pointer to an allocated HCD interface operations structure.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn usba_alloc_hcdi_ops
function allocates a
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops_t 9S
structure for use for a USB HCD driver. As part of initialization, a USB
HCD driver will allocate this and fill it in. For more information on
the full lifetime of the object and when a USB HCD driver should release
the structure, see
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E .
.Pp
The
.Fn usba_free_hcdi_ops
function release the memory associated with the
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops_t 9S
structure pointed to by
.Fa ops .
Only pointers received from a call to the
.Fn usba_alloc_hcdi_ops
function should be passed to this function.
.Sh CONTEXT
These functions are generally called from kernel context during a USB
HCD driver's
.Xr attach 9E
and
.Xr detach 9E
entry points. While it is safe to call this function from user context,
it would be quite unusal to do so.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn usba_alloc_hcdi_ops
function always succeeds and returns a pointer to an allocation
operations structure.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops_t 9S
