.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Sep 16, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_CB 9F
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hcdi_cb
.Nd USBA transfer callback
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hcdi.h
.Ft void
.Fo usba_hcdi_cb
.Fa "usba_pipe_handle_data_t *ph"
.Fa "usb_opaque_t req"
.Fa "ucb_cr_t cr"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This is a private function that is not part of the stable DDI. It may be
removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa ph
A pointer to the USBA pipe handle that was passed to the HCD driver
during a call to the
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_open
entry point.
.It Fa req
A pointer to the request structure that is being completed.
.It Fa cr
The completion code for the request.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_cb
function is used when the HCD controller has completed processing a USB
transfer request, whether
successfully or not.
.Pp
The USB transfer will have been initiated by a call to
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_bulk_xfer 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_ctrl_xfer 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_intr_xfer 9E ,
or
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_isoc_xfer 9E .
If the transfer initiated was a periodic transfer (certain Interrupt-IN
and Isochronous-IN transfers), then there may be more than one callback
performed over the life of the transfer.
.Pp
This function must not be used if the HCD driver returned a value
other than
.Sy USB_SUCCESS
to one of the transfer initialization functions listed above. For more
information on transfer request handling, see
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E .
.Pp
The
.Fa ph
argument corresponds to the USBA framework's pipe handle that was given
to the HCDI when the pipe was opened. See
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_open 9E
and
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E
for more information.
.Pp
The
.Fa req
argument is one of the four request structures,
.Xr usb_bulk_req 9S ,
.Xr usb_ctrl_req 9S ,
.Xr usb_intr_req 9S ,
or
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S ,
which have been cast to the type
.Ft usb_oapque_t .
The caller should ensure that all appropriate members of the request
structure have been filled in. For example, if expecting data from the
device and the request has completed successfully, then  that data
should be copied into the request structure's
.Xr mblk 9S
prior to handing the request structure to the
.Fn usb_hcdi_cb
function.
Similarly, the
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S
structure's
.Sy isoc_pkt_descr
member should be filled in with the appropriate data.
.Pp
Once the request structure has been passed to the
.Fn usba_hcdi_cb
function, the HCD driver must not access the structure ever again. It
should be treated as freed memory.
.Pp
The
.Fa cr
argument us used to indicate whether the transfer was successful or not.
If
.Fa cr
is set to
.Sy USB_CR_OK
that indicates that the transfer completed successfully. This should
also be used when a permitted short transfer has occurred. Otherwise, it
should be set to one of the completion reasons.
.Ss Locking
The HCD driver should not hold its own internal locks across a call to
the
.Fn usba_hcdi_cb
function. It is possible that the driver will have once of its
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E
entry points called based on the return value specified.
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_cb
function may be called from
.Sy user ,
.Sy kernel ,
or
.Sy interrupt
context.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_bulk_xfer 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_ctrl_xfer 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_intr_xfer 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_isoc_xfer 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_open 9E ,
.Xr mblk 9S ,
.Xr usb_bulk_req 9S ,
.Xr usb_ctrl_req 9S ,
.Xr usb_intr_req 9S ,
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S
