'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2008 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IP 7P "Dec 3, 2008"
.SH NAME
ip, IP \- Internet Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <sys/socket.h>\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB#include <netinet/in.h>\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBs = socket(AF_INET, SOCK_RAW, proto);\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBt = t_open ("/dev/rawip", O_RDWR);\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
IP is the internetwork datagram delivery protocol that is central to the
Internet protocol family. Programs may use \fBIP\fR through higher-level
protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or the User Datagram
Protocol (UDP), or may interface directly to IP. See \fBtcp\fR(7P) and
\fBudp\fR(7P). Direct access may be by means of the socket interface, using a
"raw socket," or by means of the Transport Level Interface (TLI). The protocol
options defined in the IP specification may be set in outgoing datagrams.
.sp
.LP
Packets sent to or from this system may be subject to IPsec policy. See
\fBipsec\fR(7P) for more information.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The STREAMS driver \fB/dev/rawip\fR is the TLI transport provider that provides
raw access to IP.
.sp
.LP
Raw IP sockets are connectionless and are normally used with the \fBsendto()\fR
and \fBrecvfrom()\fR calls (see \fBsend\fR(3SOCKET) and \fBrecv\fR(3SOCKET)),
although the \fBconnect\fR(3SOCKET) call may also be used to fix the
destination for future datagram. In this case, the \fBread\fR(2) or
\fBrecv\fR(3SOCKET) and \fBwrite\fR(2) or \fBsend\fR(3SOCKET) calls may be
used. If \fIproto\fR is \fBIPPROTO_RAW\fR or \fBIPPROTO_IGMP\fR, the
application is expected to include a complete IP header when sending.
Otherwise, that protocol number will be set in outgoing datagrams and used to
filter incoming datagrams and an IP header will be generated and prepended to
each outgoing datagram. In either case, received datagrams are returned with
the IP header and options intact.
.sp
.LP
If an application uses \fBIP_HDRINCL\fR and provides the IP header contents,
the IP stack does not modify the following supplied fields under any
conditions: Type of Service, DF Flag, Protocol, and Destination Address. The IP
Options and IHL fields are set by use of \fBIP_OPTIONS\fR, and \fBTotal
Length\fR is updated to include any options. Version is set to the default.
Identification is chosen by the normal IP ID selection logic. The source
address is updated if none was specified and the TTL is changed if the packet
has a broadcast destination address. Since an applicaton cannot send down
fragments (as IP assigns the IP ID), Fragment Offset is always 0. The IP
Checksum field is computed by IP. None of the data beyond the IP header are
changed, including the application-provided transport header.
.sp
.LP
The socket options supported at the IP level are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_OPTIONS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
IP options for outgoing datagrams. This socket option may be used to set IP
options to be included in each outgoing datagram. IP options to be sent are set
with \fBsetsockopt()\fR (see \fBgetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET)). The
\fBgetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET) call returns the IP options set in the last
\fBsetsockopt()\fR call. IP options on received datagrams are visible to user
programs only using raw IP sockets. The format of IP options given in
\fBsetsockopt()\fR matches those defined in the IP specification with one
exception: the list of addresses for the source routing options must include
the first-hop gateway at the beginning of the list of gateways. The first-hop
gateway address will be extracted from the option list and the size adjusted
accordingly before use. IP options may be used with any socket type in the
Internet family.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_SEC_OPT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Enable or obtain IPsec security settings for this socket. For more details on
the protection services of IPsec, see \fBipsec\fR(7P).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Join a multicast group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_DROP_MEMBERSHIP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Leave a multicast group.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_BOUND_IF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Limit  reception and transmission of packets to this interface. Takes an
integer as an argument. The integer is the selected interface index.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options take \fBin_pktinfo_t\fR as the parameter:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_PKTINFO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Set the source address and/or transmit interface of  the packet(s).  Note that
the IP_BOUND_IF socket option takes precedence over the interface index passed
in IP_PKTINFO.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct in_pktinfo {
   unsigned int ipi_ifindex;/* send/recv interface index */
   struct in_addr ipi_spec_dst;/* matched source addr. */
   struct in_addr ipi_addr;/* src/dst addr. in IP hdr */
} in_pktinfo_t;
.fi
.in -2

When passed in (on transmit) via ancillary data with IP_PKTINFO, ipi_spec_dst
is used as the source address and ipi_ifindex is used as the interface index to
send the packet out.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_RECVPKTINFO\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enable/disable receipt of the index of the interface the packet arrived on, the
local address that was matched for reception, and the inbound packet's actual
destination address. Takes boolean as the parameter.  Returns struct
in_pktinfo_t as ancillary data.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options take a \fBstruct ip_mreq\fR as the parameter. The
structure contains a multicast address which must be set to the \fBCLASS-D\fR
\fBIP\fR multicast address and an interface address. Normally the interface
address is set to \fBINADDR_ANY\fR which causes the kernel to choose the
interface on which to join.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_BLOCK_SOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Block multicast packets whose source address matches the given source address.
The specified group must be joined previously using IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP or
MCAST_JOIN_GROUP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_UNBLOCK_SOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Unblock (begin receiving) multicast packets which were previously blocked using
IP_BLOCK_SOURCE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_ADD_SOURCE_MEMBERSHIP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Begin receiving packets for the given multicast group whose source address
matches the specified address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_DROP_SOURCE_MEMBERSHIP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Stop receiving packets for the given multicast group whose source address
matches the specified address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options take a \fBstruct ip_mreq_source\fR as the parameter. The
structure contains a multicast address (which must be set to the CLASS-D IP
multicast address), an interface address, and a source address.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMCAST_JOIN_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Join a multicast group. Functionally equivalent to IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMCAST_BLOCK_SOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Block multicast packets whose source address matches the given source address.
The specified group must be joined previously using IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP or
MCAST_JOIN_GROUP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMCAST_UNBLOCK_SOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Unblock (begin receiving) multicast packets which were previously blocked using
MCAST_BLOCK_SOURCE.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMCAST_LEAVE_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Leave a multicast group. Functionally equivalent to IP_DROP_MEMBERSHIP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMCAST_JOIN_SOURCE_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Begin receiving packets for the given multicast group whose source address
matches the specified address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBMCAST_LEAVE_SOURCE_GROUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Stop receiving packets for the given multicast group whose source address
matches the specified address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following options take a struct \fBgroup_req\fR or struct
\fBgroup_source_req\fR as the parameter. The `\fBgroup_req\fR structure
contains an interface index and a multicast address which must be set to the
CLASS-D multicast address. The \fBgroup_source_req\fR structure is used for
those options which include a source address. It contains an interface index,
multicast address, and source address.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_MULTICAST_IF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The outgoing interface for multicast packets. This option takes a \fBstruct\fR
\fBin_addr\fR as an argument, and it selects that interface for outgoing IP
multicast packets. If the address specified is \fBINADDR_ANY\fR, it uses the
unicast routing table to select the outgoing interface (which is the default
behavior).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_MULTICAST_TTL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Time to live for multicast datagrams. This option takes an unsigned character
as an argument. Its value is the TTL that IP uses on outgoing multicast
datagrams. The default is \fB1\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_MULTICAST_LOOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Loopback for multicast  datagrams. Normally multicast  datagrams are delivered
to members on the sending host (or sending zone). Setting the unsigned
character argument to 0 causes the opposite behavior, meaning that when
multiple zones are present, the datagrams are delivered to all zones except the
sending zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_RECVIF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Receive the inbound interface index.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_TOS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This option takes an integer argument as its input value. The least significant
8 bits of the value are used to set the Type Of Service field in the IP header
of the outgoing packets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBIP_NEXTHOP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This option specifies the address of the onlink nexthop for traffic originating
from that socket. It causes the routing table to be bypassed and outgoing
traffic is sent directly to the specified nexthop. This option takes an
ipaddr_t argument representing the IPv4 address of the nexthop as the input
value. The IP_NEXTHOP option takes precedence over IPOPT_LSRR. IP_BOUND_IF and
SO_DONTROUTE take precedence over IP_NEXTHOP. This option has no meaning for
broadcast and multicast packets. The application must ensure that the specified
nexthop is alive. An application may want to specify the IP_NEXTHOP option on a
TCP listener socket only for incoming requests to a particular IP address. In
this case, it must avoid binding the socket to INADDR_ANY and instead must bind
the listener socket to the specific IP address. In addition, typically the
application may want the incoming and outgoing interface to be the same. In
this case, the application must select a suitable nexthop that is onlink and
reachable via the desired interface and do a setsockopt (IP_NEXTHOP) on it.
Then it must bind to the IP address of the desired interface. Setting the
IP_NEXTHOP option requires the PRIV_SYS_NET_CONFIG privilege.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The multicast socket options (IP_MULTICAST_IF, IP_MULTICAST_TTL,
IP_MULTICAST_LOOP and IP_RECVIF) can be used with any datagram socket type in
the Internet family.
.sp
.LP
At the socket level, the socket option \fBSO_DONTROUTE\fR may be applied. This
option forces datagrams being sent to bypass routing and forwarding by forcing
the IP Time To Live field to \fB1\fR, meaning that the packet will not be
forwarded by routers.
.sp
.LP
Raw IP datagrams can also be sent and received using the TLI connectionless
primitives.
.sp
.LP
Datagrams flow through the IP layer in two directions: from the network
\fIup\fR to user processes and from user processes \fIdown\fR to the network.
Using this orientation, IP is layered \fIabove\fR the network interface drivers
and \fIbelow\fR the transport protocols such as UDP and TCP. The Internet
Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is logically a part of IP. See \fBicmp\fR(7P).
.sp
.LP
IP provides for a checksum of the header part, but not the data part, of the
datagram. The checksum value is computed and set in the process of sending
datagrams and checked when receiving datagrams.
.sp
.LP
IP options in received datagrams are processed in the IP layer according to the
protocol specification. Currently recognized IP options include: security,
loose source and record route (LSRR), strict source and record route (SSRR),
record route, and internet timestamp.
.sp
.LP
By default, the IP layer will not forward IPv4 packets that are not addressed
to it. This behavior can be overridden by using  \fBrouteadm\fR(1M) to enable
the ipv4-forwarding option. IPv4 forwarding is configured at boot time based on
the setting of \fBrouteadm\fR(1M)'s ipv4-forwarding option.
.sp
.LP
For backwards compatibility, IPv4 forwarding can be enabled or disabled using
\fBndd\fR(1M)'s ip_forwarding variable.  It is set to 1 if IPv4 forwarding is
enabled, or 0 if it is disabled.
.sp
.LP
Additionally, finer-grained forwarding can be configured in IP. Each interface
can be configured to forward IP packets by setting the IFF_ROUTER interface
flag. This flag can be set and cleared using \fBifconfig\fR(1M)'s router and
router options. If an interface's IFF_ROUTER flag is set, packets can be
forwarded to or from the interface. If it is clear, packets will neither be
forwarded from this interface to others, nor forwarded to this interface.
Setting the ip_forwarding variable sets all of the IPv4 interfaces' IFF_ROUTER
flags.
.sp
.LP
For backwards compatibility, each interface creates an
\fB<ifname>:ip_forwarding /dev/ip\fR variable that can be modified using
\fBndd\fR(1M). An interface's \fB:ip_forwarding ndd\fR variable is a boolean
variable that mirrors the status of its IFF_ROUTER interface flag. It is set to
1 if the flag is set, or 0 if it is clear. This interface specific \fB<ifname>
:ip_forwarding ndd\fR variable is obsolete and may be removed in a future
release of Solaris. The \fBifconfig\fR(1M) router and -router interfaces are
preferred.
.sp
.LP
The IP layer sends an ICMP message back to the source host in many cases when
it receives a datagram that can not be handled. A "time exceeded" ICMP message
is sent if the "time to live" field in the IP header drops to zero in the
process of forwarding a datagram. A "destination unreachable" message is sent
if a datagram can not be forwarded because there is no route to the final
destination, or if it can not be fragmented. If the datagram is addressed to
the local host but is destined for a protocol that is not supported or a port
that is not in use, a destination unreachable message is also sent. The IP
layer may send an ICMP "source quench" message if it is receiving datagrams too
quickly. ICMP messages are only sent for the first fragment of a fragmented
datagram and are never returned in response to errors in other ICMP messages.
.sp
.LP
The IP layer supports fragmentation and reassembly. Datagrams are fragmented on
output if the datagram is larger than the maximum transmission unit (MTU) of
the network interface. Fragments of received datagrams are dropped from the
reassembly queues if the complete datagram is not reconstructed within a short
time period.
.sp
.LP
Errors in sending discovered at the network interface driver layer are passed
by IP back up to the user process.
.sp
.LP
Multi-Data Transmit allows more than one packet to be sent from the IP module
to another in a given call, thereby reducing the per-packet processing costs.
The behavior of Multi-Data Transmit can be overrideen by using \fBndd\fR(1M) to
set the \fB/dev/ip\fR variable, ip_multidata_outbound to 0. Note, the IP module
will only initiate Multi-Data Transmit if the network interface driver supports
it.
.SH PACKET EVENTS
.sp
.LP
Through the netinfo framework, this driver provides the following packet
events:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPhysical in\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Packets received on a network  interface from an external source.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPhysical out\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Packets to be sent out a network interface.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBForwarding\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Packets being forwarded through this host to another network.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBloopback in\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Packets that have been sent by a local application to another.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBloopback out\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Packets about  to  be  received by a local application from another.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Currently, only a single function may be registered for each event. As a
result, if the slot for an event is already occupied by someone else, a second
attempt  to register a callback fails.
.sp
.LP
To receive packet events in a kernel module, it is first necessary  to obtain a
handle  for either IPv4 or IPv6 traffic. This is achieved by passing NHF_INET
or NHF_INET6 through to a net_protocol_lookup() call. The value returned from
this call must then   be passed into a call to net_register_hook(), along with
a description of the hook to add. For a description of the structure passed
through  to the  callback,  please see \fBhook_pkt_event\fR(9S). For IP
packets, this structure is filled out as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhpe_ifp\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Identifier indicating the inbound interface  for packets received with the
"physical in" event.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhpe_ofp\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Identifier indicating the outbound interface for packets received with the
"physical out" event.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhpe_hdr\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Pointer to the start of the IP header (not the ethernet header).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhpe_mp\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Pointer to the start of the mblk_t chain containing the IP packet.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBhpe_mb\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Pointer to the mblk_t with the IP header in it.
.RE

.SH NETWORK INTERFACE EVENTS
.sp
.LP
In addition to events describing packets as they move through the system, it is
also possible to receive notification of events relating to network interfaces.
These events are all reported back through the same callback. The list of
events is as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBplumb\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A new network interface has been instantiated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBunplumb\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
A network interface is no longer associated with this protocol.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBup\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
At least one logical interface is now ready to receive packets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBdown\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
There are no logical interfaces expecting to receive packets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBaddress change\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
An address has changed on a logical  interface.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBifconfig\fR(1M), \fBrouteadm\fR(1M), \fBndd\fR(1M), \fBread\fR(2),
\fBwrite\fR(2), \fBbind\fR(3SOCKET), \fBconnect\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBgetsockopt\fR(3SOCKET), \fBrecv\fR(3SOCKET), \fBsend\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBdefaultrouter\fR(4), \fBicmp\fR(7P), \fBif_tcp\fR(7P), \fBinet\fR(7P),
\fBip6\fR(7P), \fBipsec\fR(7P), \fBrouting\fR(7P), \fBtcp\fR(7P),
\fBudp\fR(7P), \fBnet_hook_register\fR(9F), \fBhook_pkt_event\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
Braden, R., \fIRFC 1122, Requirements for Internet Hosts \(mi Communication
Layers\fR, Information Sciences Institute, University of Southern California,
October 1989.
.sp
.LP
Postel, J., \fIRFC 791, Internet Protocol \(mi DARPA Internet Program Protocol
Specification\fR, Information Sciences Institute, University of Southern
California, September 1981.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
A socket operation may fail with one of the following errors returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBbind()\fR operation was attempted with a "reserved" port number and the
effective user ID of the process was not the privileged user.
.sp
Setting the IP_NEXTHOP was attempted by a process lacking the
PRIV_SYS_NET_CONFIG privilege.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEADDRINUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBbind()\fR operation was attempted on a socket with a network address/port
pair that has already been bound to another socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEADDRNOTAVAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBbind()\fR operation was attempted for an address that is not configured on
this machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBsendmsg()\fR operation with a non-NULL \fBmsg_accrights\fR was attempted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBgetsockopt()\fR or \fBsetsockopt()\fR operation with an unknown socket
option name was given.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBgetsockopt()\fR or \fBsetsockopt()\fR operation was attempted with the
\fBIP\fR option field improperly formed; an option field was shorter than the
minimum value or longer than the option buffer provided.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEISCONN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBconnect()\fR operation was attempted on a socket on which a
\fBconnect()\fR operation had already been performed, and the socket could not
be successfully disconnected before making the new connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEISCONN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBsendto()\fR or \fBsendmsg()\fR operation specifying an address to which
the message should be sent was attempted on a socket on which a \fBconnect()\fR
operation had already been performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEMSGSIZE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBsend()\fR, \fBsendto()\fR, or \fBsendmsg()\fR operation was attempted to
send a datagram that was too large for an interface, but was not allowed to be
fragmented (such as broadcasts).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENETUNREACH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
An attempt was made to establish a connection by means of \fBconnect()\fR, or
to send a datagram by means of \fBsendto()\fR or \fBsendmsg()\fR, where there
was no matching entry in the routing table; or if an ICMP "destination
unreachable" message was received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTCONN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
A \fBsend()\fR or \fBwrite()\fR operation, or a \fBsendto()\fR or
\fBsendmsg()\fR operation not specifying an address to which the message should
be sent, was attempted on a socket on which a \fBconnect()\fR operation had not
already been performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOBUFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The system ran out of memory for fragmentation buffers or other internal data
structures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOBUFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
\fBSO_SNDBUF\fR or \fBSO_RCVBUF\fR exceeds a system limit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Invalid length for \fBIP_OPTIONS\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEHOSTUNREACH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Invalid address for \fBIP_MULTICAST_IF\fR.
.sp
Invalid (offlink) nexthop address for IP_NEXTHOP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Not a multicast address for \fBIP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP\fR and
\fBIP_DROP_MEMBERSHIP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEADDRNOTAVAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Bad interface address for \fBIP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP\fR and \fBIP_DROP_MEMBERSHIP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEADDRINUSE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Address already joined for \fBIP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Address not joined for \fBIP_DROP_MEMBERSHIP\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOPROTOOPT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Invalid socket type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
No permissions.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Raw sockets should receive \fBICMP\fR error packets relating to the protocol;
currently such packets are simply discarded.
.sp
.LP
Users of higher-level protocols such as \fBTCP\fR and \fBUDP\fR should be able
to see received IP options.
