'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2018, Joyent, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PF_KEY 7P "Jan 12, 2018"
.SH NAME
pf_key \- Security association database interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/socket.h>
#include <net/pfkeyv2.h>



\fBint\fR \fBsocket\fR(\fB\fR\fIPF_KEY\fR,SOCK_RAW,\fIPF_KEY_V2\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Keying information for IPsec security services is maintained in security
association databases (\fBSADB\fRs).  The security associations (\fBSA\fRs) are
used to protect both inbound and outbound packets.
.sp
.LP
A user process (or possibly multiple co-operating processes) maintains
\fBSADB\fRs by sending messages over a special kind of socket.  This is
analogous to the method described in \fBroute\fR(7P). Only a superuser may
access an \fBSADB\fR.
.sp
.LP
SunOS applications that use PF_KEY include \fBipseckey\fR(1M) and
\fBin.iked\fR(1M).
.sp
.LP
The operating system may spontaneously send pf_key messages to listening
processes, such as a request for a new \fBSA\fR for an outbound datagram or to
report the expiration of an existing \fBSA\fR.
.sp
.LP
One opens the channel for passing \fBSADB\fR control messages by using the
socket call shown in the  section above. More than one key socket can be open
per system.
.sp
.LP
Messages are formed by a small base header, followed by zero or more extension
messages, some of which require additional data following them. The base
message and all extensions must be eight-byte aligned.  An example message is
the \fBGET\fR message, which  requires the base header, the \fBSA \fRextension,
and the \fBADDRESS_DST\fR extension.
.SS "Messages"
.LP
Messages include:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define    SADB_GETSPI  /* Get a new SPI value from the system. */
#define    SADB_UPDATE     /* Update an SA. */
#define    SADB_ADD        /* Add a fully-formed SA. */
#define    SADB_DELETE     /* Delete an SA. */
#define    SADB_GET        /* Get an SA */
#define    SADB_ACQUIRE    /* Kernel needs a new SA. */
#define    SADB_REGISTER   /* Regis. to receive ACQUIRE msgs. */
#define    SADB_EXPIRE     /* SA has expired. */
#define    SADB_FLUSH      /* Flush all SAs. */
#define    SADB_DUMP       /* Get all SAs.  (Unreliable) */
#define    SADB_X_PROMISC  /* Listen promiscuously */
#define    SADB_X_INVERSE_ACQUIRE  /* Query kernel policy,
								         get an ACQUIRE in return. */
#define    SADB_X_UPDATEPAIR     /* Update an SA and its pair SA */
#define    SADB_X_DELPAIR        /* Delete an SA pair. */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The base message header consists of:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_msg {
    uint8_t  sadb_msg_version;  /* Set to PF_KEY_V2, for compat. */
    uint8_t  sadb_msg_type;     /* Msg. type */
    uint8_t  sadb_msg_errno;    /* Why message failed */
    uint8_t  sadb_msg_satype;   /* Which security service */
    uint16_t sadb_msg_len;      /* Length in 8-byte units */
    uint16_t sadb_msg_reserved; /* Zero out */
 #define sadb_x_msg_diagnostic sadb_msg_reserved
					/* Extended diagnostics for errors */
    uint32_t sadb_msg_seq;      /* For msg. originator */
    uint32_t sadb_msg_pid;      /* ID originator */
};
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Extension types include:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define  SADB_EXT_SA                /* SA info */
#define  SADB_EXT_LIFETIME_HARD     /* Hard lifetime */
#define  SADB_EXT_LIFETIME_SOFT     /* Soft lifetime */
#define  SADB_EXT_ADDRESS_SRC       /* Source address */
#define  SADB_EXT_ADDRESS_DST       /* Destination address */
#define  SADB_EXT_ADDRESS_PROXY     /* Proxy address - DEPRECATED */
#define  SADB_EXT_KEY_AUTH          /* Authen. key */
#define  SADB_EXT_KEY_ENCRYPT       /* Encryption key */
#define  SADB_EXT_IDENTITY_SRC      /* Source certif. ID */
#define  SADB_EXT_IDENTITY_DST      /* Destination certif. ID */
#define  SADB_EXT_SENSITIVITY       /* Sensitivity info */
#define  SADB_EXT_PROPOSAL          /* Security proposal */
#define  SADB_EXT_SUPPORTED_AUTH   /* Supported authen. algo's */
#define  SADB_EXT_SUPPORTED_ENCRYPT /* Supported encryption algo's */
#define  SADB_EXT_SPIRANGE          /* Range of possible SPIs *
#define  SADB_X_EXT_EREG           /* Reg. for extended ACQUIRE */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_EPROP          /* Extended ACQUIRE proposals */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_KM_COOKIE      /* Indicates which KM derived SA. */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_ADDRESS_NATT_LOC  /* NAT-Traversal local (my public) */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_ADDRESS_NATT_REM  /* NAT-T remote (peer's private) */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_ADDRESS_INNER_SRC /* Tunnel-mode inner source */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_ADDRESS_INNER_DST /* Tunnel-mode inner dest */
#define  SADB_X_EXT_PAIR              /* SA pair extension.
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Security Association Information Extension flags:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define SADB_SAFLAGS_PFS        0x1          /* Perfect forward secrecy? */
#define SADB_SAFLAGS_NOREPLAY   0x2          /* Replay field NOT PRESENT. */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_USED     0x80000000   /* SA used/not used */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_UNIQUE   0x40000000   /* SA unique/reusable */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_AALG1    0x20000000   /* Auth-alg specif. flag 1 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_AALG2    0x10000000   /* Auth-alg specif. flag 2 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_EALG1     0x8000000   /* Encr-alg specif. flag 1 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_EALG2     0x4000000   /* Encr-alg specif. flag 2 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_KM1       0x2000000   /* Key mgmt. specif. flag 1 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_KM2       0x1000000   /* Key mgmt. specif. flag 2 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_KM3        0x800000   /* Key mgmt. specif. flag 3 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_KM4        0x400000   /* Key mgmt. specif. flag 4 */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_KRES1      0x200000   /* Reserved by the kernel */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_NATT_LOC   0x100000   /* this has a natted srcSA */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_NATT_REM    0x80000   /* this has a natted dstSA */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_KRES2       0x40000   /* Reserved by the kernel */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_TUNNEL      0x20000   /* tunnel mode */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_PAIRED      0x10000   /* inbound/outbound pair*/
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_OUTBOUND     0x8000   /* SA direction bit */
#define SADB_X_SAFLAGS_INBOUND      0x4000   /* SA direction bit */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Extension headers include:
.SS "Generic Extension Header"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_ext {
    uint16_t sadb_ext_len;  /* In 64-bit words, inclusive */
    uint16_t sadb_ext_type; /* 0 is reserved */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Security Association Information Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_sa {
    uint16_t sadb_sa_len;
    uint16_t sadb_sa_exttype; /* ASSOCIATION */
    uint32_t sadb_sa_spi;
    uint8_t sadb_sa_replay;
    uint8_t sadb_sa_state;
    uint8_t sadb_sa_auth;
    uint8_t sadb_sa_encrypt;
    uint32_t sadb_sa_flags;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Lifetime Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_lifetime {
    uint16_t sadb_lifetime_len;
    uint16_t sadb_lifetime_exttype;   /* SOFT, HARD, CURRENT */
    uint32_t sadb_lifetime_allocations;
    uint64_t sadb_lifetime_bytes;
    uint64_t sadb_lifetime_addtime;
    uint64_t sadb_lifetime_usetime;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Address Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_address {
    uint16_t sadb_address_len;
    uint16_t sadb_address_exttype;    /* SRC, DST, NATT_*, INNER_* */
    uint8_t sadb_address_proto;       /* Proto for ports... */
    uint8_t sadb_address_prefixlen;   /* Prefix length for INNER_*. */
    uint16_t sadb_address_reserved;   /* Padding */
                                      /* Followed by a sockaddr
                                         structure.*/
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Keying Material Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_key {
    uint16_t sadb_key_len;
    uint16_t sadb_key_exttype;         /* AUTH, ENCRYPT */
    uint16_t sadb_key_bits;
    uint16_t sadb_key_reserved;
        /* Followed by actual key(s) in
         canonical (outbound proc.) order. */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Indentity Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_ident {
    uint16_t sadb_ident_len;
    uint16_t sadb_ident_exttype;      /* SRC, DST, PROXY */
    uint16_t sadb_ident_type;         /* FQDN, USER_FQDN, etc. */
    uint16_t sadb_ident_reserved;     /* Padding */
    uint64_t sadb_ident_id;           /* For userid, etc. */
        /* Followed by an identity null-terminate C string if present. */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Sensitivity/Integrity Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_sens {
    uint16_t sadb_sens_len;
    uint16_t sadb_sens_exttype;   /* SENSITIVITY */
    uint32_t sadb_sens_dpd;
    uint8_t sadb_sens_sens_level;
    uint8_t sadb_sens_sens_len;   /* 64-bit words */
    uint8_t sadb_sens_integ_level;
    uint8_t sadb_sens_integ_len;  /* 64-bit words */
    uint32_t sadb_sens_reserved;
                     /*
                      * followed by two uint64_t arrays
                      * uint64_t sadb_sens_bitmap[sens_bitmap_len];
                      * uint64_t integ_bitmap[integ_bitmap_len];
                      */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Proposal Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_prop {
    uint16_t sadb_prop_len;
    uint16_t sadb_prop_exttype;     /* PROPOSAL, X_EPROP */
    uint8_t sadb_prop_replay;
    uint8_t sadb_X_prop_ereserved;
    uint16_t sadb_x_prop_numecombs;
/* Followed by sadb_comb[] array or sadb_ecomb[] array. */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Combination Instance for a Proposal"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_comb {
    uint8_t sadb_comb_auth;
    uint8_t sadb_comb_encrypt;
    uint16_t sadb_comb_flags;
    uint16_t sadb_comb_auth_minbits;
    uint16_t sadb_comb_auth_maxbits;
    uint16_t sadb_comb_encrypt_minbits;
    uint16_t sadb_comb_encrypt_maxbits;
    uint8_t sadb_x_comb_encrypt_saltbits;
    uint8_t sadb_x_comb_reserved;
    uint16_t sadb_comb_reserved;
    uint32_t sadb_comb_soft_allocations;
    uint32_t sadb_comb_hard_allocations;
    uint64_t sadb_comb_soft_bytes;
    uint64_t sadb_comb_hard_bytes;
    uint64_t sadb_comb_soft_addtime;
    uint64_t sadb_comb_hard_addtime;
    uint64_t sadb_comb_soft_usetime;
    uint64_t sadb_comb_hard_usetime;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Extended Combination"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_x_ecomb {
    uint8_t sadb_x_ecomb_numalgs;
    uint8_t sadb_x_ecomb_reserved;
    uint16_t sadb_x_ecomb_flags;    /* E.g. PFS? */
    uint32_t sadb_x_ecomb_reserved2;
    uint32_t sadb_x_ecomb_soft_allocations;
    uint32_t sadb_x_ecomb_hard_allocations;
    uint64_t sadb_x_ecomb_soft_bytes;
    uint64_t sadb_x_ecomb_hard_bytes;
    uint64_t sadb_x_ecomb_soft_addtime;
    uint64_t sadb_x_ecomb_hard_addtime;
    uint64_t sadb_x_ecomb_soft_usetime;
    uint64_t sadb_x_ecomb_hard_usetime;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Extended Combination Algorithm Descriptors"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_x_algdesc {
    uint8_t sadb_x_algdesc_satype;  /* ESP, AH, etc. */
    uint8_t sadb_x_algdesc_algtype; /* AUTH, CRYPT, COMPRESS */
    uint8_t sadb_x_algdesc_alg;     /* DES, 3DES, MD5, etc. */
    uint8_t sadb_x_algdesc_saltbits;
    uint16_t sadb_x_algdesc_minbits;        /* Bit strengths. */
    uint16_t sadb_x_algdesc_maxbits;
   };
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Extended Register"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_x_ereg {
    uint16_t sadb_x_ereg_len;
    uint16_t sadb_x_ereg_exttype;   /* X_EREG */
    uint8_t sadb_x_ereg_satypes[4]; /* Array of SA types, 0-terminated.
|};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Key Management Cookie"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_x_kmc {
    uint16_t sadb_x_kmc_len;
    uint16_t sadb_x_kmc_exttype;    /* X_KM_COOKIE */
    uint32_t sadb_x_kmc_proto;      /* KM protocol */
    uint32_t sadb_x_kmc_cookie;     /* KMP-specific */
    uint32_t sadb_x_kmc_reserved;   /* Reserved; must be zero */
   };
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Supported Algorithms Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_supported {
    uint16_t sadb_supported_len;
    uint16_t sadb_supported_exttype;
    uint32_t sadb_supported_reserved;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Algorithm Instance"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_alg {
    uint8_t sadb_alg_id;        /* Algorithm type. */
    uint8_t sadb_alg_ivlen;     /* IV len, in bits */
    uint16_t sadb_alg_minbits;  /* Min. key len (in bits) */
    uint16_t sadb_alg_maxbits;  /* Max. key length */
    uint16_t sadb_alg_reserved;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "SPI Extension Range"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_spirange {
    uint16_t sadb_spirange_len;
    uint16_t sadb_spirange_exttype;    /* SPI_RANGE */
    uint32_t sadb_spirange_min
    uint32_t sadb_spirange_max;
    uint32_t sadb_spirange_reserved;
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Security Association Pair Extension"
.in +2
.nf
struct sadb_x_pair {
    uint16_t sadb_x_pair_len;
    uint16_t sadb_x_pair_exttype;   /* SADB_X_EXT_PAIR */
    uint32_t sadb_x_pair_spi;       /* SPI of paired SA */
};
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Message Use and Behavior"
.LP
Each message has a behavior. A behavior is defined as where the initial message
travels, for example, user to kernel, and what subsequent actions are expected
to take place. Contents of messages are illustrated as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, REQUIRED EXTENSION, REQ., (OPTIONAL EXTENSION,) (OPT)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBSA\fR extension is sometimes used only for its \fBSPI\fR field. If all
other fields must be ignored, this is represented by \fBSA\fR(*).
.sp
.LP
The lifetime extensions are represented with one to three letters after the
word lifetime, representing (H)ARD, (S)OFT, and (C)URRENT.
.sp
.LP
The address extensions are represented with one to three letters after the word
"address," representing (S)RC, (D)ST, (Nl)NAT-T local, (Nr)NAT-T remote,
(Is)Inner source, and (Id)Inner destination.
.sp
.LP
Source and destination address extensions reflect outer-header selectors for an
IPsec SA. An SA is inbound or outbound depending on which of the source or
destination address is local to the node. Inner-source and inner-destination
selectors represent inner-header selectors for Tunnel Mode SAs. A Tunnel Mode
SA \fBmust\fR have either IPPROTO_ENCAP or IPPROTO_IPV6 in its outer-headers as
protocol selector, in addition to filled-in Inner-address extensions.
.sp
.LP
NAT-T local and NAT-T remote addresses store local and remote ports used for
ESP-in-UDP encapsulation. A non-zero local NAT-T address extension represents
the local node's external IP address if it is not equivalent to the SA's local
address. A non-zero remote NAT-T address represents a peer's behind-a-NAT
address if it is not equivalent to the SA's remote address. An SA with NAT-T
extensions will protect-and-transmit outbound traffic.  Processing of inbound
NAT-T traffic requires a UDP socket bound to the appropriate local port and it
\fBmust\fR have the UDP_NAT_T_ENDPOINT (see \fBudp\fR(7P)) socket option
enabled.
.sp
.LP
Note that when an error occurs, only the base header is sent. In the event of
an error, an extended diagnostic may be set (see DIAGNOSTICS). Typical errors
include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Various message improprieties, including \fBSPI\fR ranges that are malformed,
weak keys, and others. If EINVAL is returned, an application should look at the
\fBsadb_x_msg_diagnostic\fR field of the sadb_msg structure. It contains one of
many possible causes for EINVAL. See \fBnet/pfkeyv2.h\fR for values, all of the
form SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Needed memory was not available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENSGSIZ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Message exceeds the maximum length allowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
\fBSA\fR (that is being added or created with \fBGETSPI\fR) already exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBESRCH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
\fBSA\fR could not be found.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following are examples of message use and behavior:
.SS "\fBSADB_GETSPI\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_GETSPI\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, address, SPI range>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_GETSPI\fR message to all listening processes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA(*), address (SD)>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_UPDATE\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_UPDATE\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA, (lifetime(HS),) address(SD), (address(Is,Id),
 address(Nl,Nr), key (AE), (identity(SD),) (sensitivity)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_UPDATE\fR message to all listening processes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA(*), address (SD), (pair)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Adding a sadb_x_pair extension to an \fBSADB_UPDATE\fR or \fBSADB_ADD\fR
message will update the security association pair linkage with the SPI of the
security association contained in that extension. The resulting security
association "pair" can be updated or as a single entity using the
\fBSADB_X_UPDATEPAIR\fR or \fBSADB_X_DELPAIR\fR message types.
.SS "\fBSADB_ADD\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_ADD\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA, (lifetime(HS),) address(SD), (address(Is,Id),)
           (address(Nl,Nr),) key (AE), (identity(SD),) (sensitivity) (pair)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_ADD\fR message to all listening processes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA, (lifetime(HS),) address (SD), (address(Is,Id),)
                  (address(Nl,Nr),) (identity (SD),) (sensitivity)>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_X_UPDATEPAIR\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_X_UPDATEPAIR\fR message from a user process to  the  kernel.
This message type is used to update the lifetime values of a security
association and the lifetime values of the security association it is paired
with.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA, lifetime(HS), address(SD)>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_DELETE | SADB_X_DELPAIR\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_DELETE\fR message from a user process to the  kernel. The
\fBSADB_X_DELPAIR\fR message type will request deletion of the security
association and the security association it is paired with.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA (*), address (SD)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_DELETE\fR message to all listening processes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA (*), address (SD)>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_GET\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_GET\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA (*), address (SD)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_GET\fR message to the socket that sent the
\fBSADB_GET\fR message.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA , (lifetime (HSC),) address SD), (address (P),) key (AE),
     (identity (SD),) (sensitivity)>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_ACQUIRE\fR"
.LP
The kernel sends a \fBSADB_ACQUIRE\fR message to registered sockets. Note that
any \fBGETSPI\fR, \fBADD\fR, or \fBUPDATE\fR calls in reaction to an
\fBACQUIRE\fR must fill in the \fBsadb_msg_seq\fR of those messages with the
one in the \fBACQUIRE\fR message. The address (\fBSD\fR) extensions must have
the port fields filled in with the port numbers of the session requiring keys
if appropriate.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, address (SD), (address(Is,Id)), (identity(SD),)
     (sensitivity,) proposal>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Extended ACQUIRE will have a slightly different format. The
\fBsadb_msg_satype\fR field is 0, and the extension contains the desired
combination(s) of security protocols.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, address (SD), (address(Is,Id)), (identity(SD),)
                       (sensitivity,) eprop>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
If key management fails, send an \fBSADB_ACQUIRE\fR to indicate failure.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_X_INVERSE_ACQUIRE\fR"
.LP
For inbound Key Management processing, a Key Management application may wish to
consult the kernel for its policy.  The application should send to the kernel:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, address (SD), (address(Is,Id))>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns a message similar to a kernel-generated extended ACQUIRE:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, address (SD), (address(Is,Id)), (identity(SD),)
                       (sensitivity,) eprop>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_REGISTER\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_REGISTER\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_REGISTER\fR message to registered sockets, with
algorithm types supported by the kernel being indicated in the supported
algorithms field. Note that this message may arrive asynchronously due to an
algorithm being loaded or unloaded into a dynamically linked kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, supported>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
There is also the extended REGISTER, which will allow this process to receive
extended ACQUIREs.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, ereg>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Which returns a series of SADB_REGISTER replies (one for each security protocol
registered) from the kernel.
.SS "\fBSADB_EXPIRE\fR"
.LP
The kernel sends a \fBSADB_EXPIRE\fR message to all listeners when the soft
limit of a security association has been expired.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA, lifetime (C and one of HS), address (SD)>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_FLUSH\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_FLUSH\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_FLUSH\fR message to all listening sockets.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_DUMP\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_DUMP\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Several \fBSADB_DUMP\fR messages will return from the kernel to the sending
socket.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base, SA, (lifetime (HSC),) address (SD), (address (Is,Id),)
    (address (Nl,Nr),) key (AE), (identity (SD),) sensitivity)>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
To mark the end of a dump a single base header arrives with its
\fBsadb_mdg_seq\fR set to 0.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "\fBSADB_X_PROMISC\fR"
.LP
Send a \fBSADB_X_PROMISC\fR message from a user process to the kernel.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The kernel returns the \fBSADB_X_PROMISC\fR message to all listening processes.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<base>
.fi
.in -2

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
The message returning from the kernel will contain a diagnostic value in the
base message header, the diagnostic value will indicate if action requested by
the original message was a success.
.sp
.LP
Diagnostic Values:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_NONE                  0
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_UNKNOWN_MSG           1
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_UNKNOWN_EXT           2
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_EXTLEN            3
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_UNKNOWN_SATYPE        4
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_SATYPE_NEEDED         5
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_NO_SADBS              6
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_NO_EXT                7
        /* Bad address family value */
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_SRC_AF            8
        /* in sockaddr->sa_family. */
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_DST_AF            9
        /* These two are synonyms. */
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_PROXY_AF          10
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_INNER_SRC_AF      10

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_AF_MISMATCH           11

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_SRC               12
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_DST               13

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_ALLOC_HSERR           14
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BYTES_HSERR           15
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_ADDTIME_HSERR         16
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_USETIME_HSERR         17

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_SRC           18
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_DST           19
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_SA            20
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_EKEY          21
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_AKEY          22
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_RANGE         23

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_SRC         24
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_DST         25
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_SA          26
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_EKEY        27
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_AKEY        28
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_RANGE       29

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_SRC         30
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_DST         31
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_SA          32
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_EKEY        33
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_AKEY        34
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_RANGE       35

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_AKEY_PRESENT          36
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_EKEY_PRESENT          37
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PROP_PRESENT          38
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_SUPP_PRESENT          39
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_AALG              40
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_EALG              41
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_SAFLAGS           42
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_SASTATE           43

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_AKEYBITS          44
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_EKEYBITS          45

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_ENCR_NOTSUPP          46

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_WEAK_EKEY             47
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_WEAK_AKEY             48

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_KMP         49
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_KMC         50

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_NATT_LOC      51
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_NATT_REM      52
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_NATT_LOC    53
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_NATT_REM    54
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_NATT_LOC    55
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_NATT_REM    56
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_NATT_PORTS  57

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_INNER_SRC     58
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MISSING_INNER_DST     59
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_INNER_SRC   60
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUPLICATE_INNER_DST   61
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_INNER_SRC   62
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_MALFORMED_INNER_DST   63

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PREFIX_INNER_SRC      64
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PREFIX_INNER_DST      65
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_INNER_DST_AF      66
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_INNER_AF_MISMATCH     67

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_NATT_REM_AF       68
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_NATT_LOC_AF       69

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PROTO_MISMATCH        70
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_INNER_PROTO_MISMATCH  71

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_DUAL_PORT_SETS        72

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PAIR_INAPPROPRIATE    73
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PAIR_ADD_MISMATCH     74
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PAIR_ALREADY          75
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_PAIR_SA_NOTFOUND      76
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_BAD_SA_DIRECTION      77

#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_SA_NOTFOUND           78
#define SADB_X_DIAGNOSTIC_SA_EXPIRED            79
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBin.iked\fR(1M), \fBipseckey\fR(1M), \fBsockaddr\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBipsec\fR(7P), \fBipsecah\fR(7P),
\fBipsecesp\fR(7P), \fBroute\fR(7P), \fBudp\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
McDonald, D.L., Metz, C.W., and Phan, B.G., \fIRFC 2367, PF_KEY Key Management
API, Version 2\fR, The Internet Society, July 1998.
.SH NOTES
.LP
Time-based lifetimes may not expire with exact precision in seconds because
kernel load may affect the aging of \fBSA\fR's.
