'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001-2007 by Garrett D'Amore.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 3. Neither the name of the author nor the names of any co-contributors may be used to endorse
.\" or promote products derived from this software    without specific prior written permission.  THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
.\" OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.TH AFE 7D "Apr 1, 2007"
.SH NAME
afe \- ADMtek Fast Ethernet device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/afe\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBafe\fR driver is a multi-threaded,  loadable, clonable, GLD-based
STREAMS  driver supporting the Data Link Provider Interface \fBdlpi\fR(7P) on
ADMtek (now Infineon) Centaur and Comet Fast Ethernet controllers.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The \fBafe\fR driver can be used as either a "style 1" or a "style 2" Data Link
Service Provider. Physical points of attachment (PPAs) are interpreted as the
instance  number of the \fBafe\fR controller as assigned by the Solaris
operating environment.
.sp
.LP
The relevant fields returned as part of a \fBDL_INFO_ACK\fR response are:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum SDU is 1500.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum SDU is 0.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The dlsap address length is 8.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
MAC type is \fBDL_ETHER\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
SAP length is -2. The 6-byte physical address is followed immediately by a
2-byte SAP.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Service mode is \fBDL_CLDLS\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address is the 6-byte Ethernet broadcast address
(\fBff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff\fR).
.RE
.sp
.LP
If the SAP provided is zero, then \fIIEEE 802.3\fR mode is assumed and outbound
frames will have the frame payload length written into the type field.
Likewise, inbound frames with a SAP between zero and 1500 are interpreted as
\fIIEEE 802.3\fR frames and delivered to any streams that are bound to SAP zero
(the \fI802.3\fR SAP).
.SH PROPERTIES
.sp
.LP
The following properties  may  be  configured  using  either \fBndd\fR(1M) or
the \fBafe.conf\fR configuration file as described by \fBdriver.conf\fR(4):
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadv_autoneg_cap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables (default) or disables \fIIEEE 802.3u\fR auto-negotiation of link speed
and duplex settings. If enabled, the device negotiates among the supported (and
configured, see below) link options with the link partner.  If disabled, at
least one of the link options below must be specified. The driver selects the
first enabled link option according to the \fIIEEE 802.3u\fR specified
preferences.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadv_100T4_cap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 100 BaseT4 link option.  (Note that most hardware does not support
this unusual link style.  Also, this uses two pairs of wires for data, rather
than one.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadv_100fdx_cap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 100 Base TX full-duplex link option. (This is generally the fastest
mode if both link partners support it. Most modern equipment supports this
mode.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadv_100hdx_cap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 100 Base TX half-duplex link option. (Typically used when the link
partner is a 100 Mbps hub.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadv_10fdx_cap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 10 Base-T full-duplex link option.  (This less-frequently used mode
is typically used when the link partner is a 10 Mbps switch.)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBadv_10hdx_cap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables the 10 Base-T half-duplex link option.  (This is the fall-back when no
other option is available.  It is typically used when the link partner is a 10
Mbps hub or is an older network card.)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC, x86
_
Interface Stability 	Committed
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/afe\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/afe\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit driver binary (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/afe\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit driver binary (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/afe\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit driver binary (SPARC).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/afe.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Configuration file.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBndd\fR(1M), \fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstreamio\fR(7I),
\fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE 802.3\fR \(em Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, 2002
