'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AMD8111S 7D "Jul 30, 2007"
.SH NAME
amd8111s \- AMD-8111 Fast Ethernet Network Adapter driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/dev/amd8111s
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBamd8111s\fR Fast Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded, loadable,
clonable,  GLD-based  STREAMS  driver supporting  the Data Link Provider
Interface, \fBdlpi\fR(7P), on the AMD-8111 Fast Ethernet Network Adapter.
.sp
.LP
The \fBamd8111s\fR driver functions include controller initialization, frame
transmit and receive, promiscuous and multicast support, and error recovery and
reporting.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The cloning, character-special device \fB/dev/amd8111\fR is used to access all
AMD-8111 Fast Ethernet devices installed within the system.
.sp
.LP
The \fBamd8111s\fR driver is managed by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) command  line
utility, which allows VLANs to be defined on top of amd8111s instances and for
amd8111s instances to be aggregated.  See \fBdladm\fR(1M) for more details.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
By default, the \fBamd8111s\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to select the
link speed and mode. Link speed and mode can be any of the following:
.sp
.LP
100 Mbps, full-duplex.
.sp
.LP
100 Mbps, half-duplex.
.sp
.LP
10 Mbps, full-duplex.
.sp
.LP
10 Mbps, half-duplex.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/amd8111s*\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd8111s*\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/amd8111s*\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit ELF Kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l l
l l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Architecture	x86
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstreamio\fR(7I), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
\fINetwork Interfaces Programmer's Guide\fR
