.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2019, Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd November 16, 2019
.Dt AMDF17NBDF 7D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm amdf17nbdf
.Nd AMD Family 17h Northbridge and Data Fabric Driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa /dev/sensors/temperature/cpu/*
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides the system access to the Northbridge and Data Fabric
devices on AMD Family 17h
.Pq Zen, Zen+, and Zen 2
processors allowing the operating system to communicate with the system
management unit
.Pq SMU .
.Pp
From this, the driver exposes temperature sensors.
On Family 17h systems, temperature sensors exist for each Zeppelin die,
of which there may be multiple in a single package.
This means that each sensor covers more than one core.
.Pp
Temperature information is available to the system via the fault
management architecture
.Pq FMA .
The file system location and programming interface to the
.Nm
driver are considered
.Sy Volatile ,
subject to change without notice, and should not be used directly.
Raw temperature information can be dumped through the FMA developer
utility fmtopo.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fmadm 1M
.Rs
.%A AMD
.%B Open-Source Register Reference For AMD Family 17h Processors Models 00h-2Fh
.%D July, 2018
.Re
