.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2019 Robert Mustacchi
.\"
.Dd December 24, 2019
.Dt AMDNBTEMP 7D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm amdnbtemp
.Nd AMD northbridge temperature sensor driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa /dev/sensors/temperature/cpu/*
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides the system the ability to read the temperature sensor
found in several AMD processors.
This includes the K10 microarchitecture, and its derivatives, as well as
the Bulldozer microarchitecture.
The following AMD processors are supported:
.Bl -dash
.It
AMD Family 10h Processors
.Pq K10
.It
AMD Family 11h Processors
.Pq Turion X2 Ultra
.It
AMD Family 12h Processors
.Pq Llano APUs
.It
AMD Family 14h Processors
.Pq Bobcat
.It
Family 15h models 0-fh, 10h-1fh, 30-3fh
.Pq Bulldozer and Piledriver
.It
AMD Family 16h Processors
.Pq Puma and Jaguar
.El
.Pp
Some AMD Family 10h processors that utilize socket F and socket AM2 are
subject to erratum 319 which indicates that the temperature sensor has
an inaccurate measurement.
If such a processor is detected, the system does not attach a
temperature sensor to the device.
.Pp
AMD Family 15h models 60-7fh
.Pq Steamroller and Excavator
are not supported at this time.
.Pp
For AMD Family 17h
.Pq Zen
processors, the
.Xr amdf17nbdf 7D
driver provides access to the temperature sensors.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr fmadm 1M ,
.Xr amdf17nbdf 7D
.Rs
.%A AMD
.%B BIOS and Kernel Developer’s Guide (BKDG) for AMD Family 16h Models 00h-0Fh Processors
.%O 49125
.Re
.Rs
.%A AMD
.%B Revision Guide for AMD Family 10h Processors
.%O 41322
.Re
