'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ATH 7D "Nov 14, 2006"
.SH NAME
ath \- Atheros AR52xx 802.11b/g wireless NIC driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBath\fR \fI802.11b/g \fR wireless  NIC driver is a  multi-threaded,
loadable, clonable, GLDv3-based STREAMS driver for the Atheros  AR52xx
(AR5210/5211/5212)  chipset-based  wireless NIC.
.sp
.LP
The \fBath\fR driver functions include controller initialization, wireless
\fI802.11b/g\fR infrastructure network connection, WEP, frame transmit and
receive, and promiscuous and multi-cast  support.
.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The \fBath\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rates and
mode. Supported \fI802.11b\fR data rates (Mbits/sec.) are 1, 2, 5.5 and 11.
Supported \fI802.11g\fR data rates (Mbits/sec.) are 1, 2, 5.5, 11, 6, 9, 12,
18, 24, 36, 48 and 54.
.sp
.LP
 The \fBath\fR driver supports only BSS networks (also known  as "ap" or
"infrastructure" networks) and the "open" (or "opensystem") authentication
type. Only  WEP encryption is currently supported. Configuration and
administration can be performed  through  the  \fBdladm\fR(1M) or
\fBwificonfig\fR(1M) utilities.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/ath*\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Special character device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/ath\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/ath\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 26n
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBwificonfig\fR(1M), \fBgld\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI/IEEE Std 802.11\fR- Standard for Wireless LAN Technology, 1999.
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11a\fR- Standard for Wireless LAN Technology-Rev. A, 2003
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11b\fR - Standard for Wireless LAN Technology-Rev.B, 2003
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 802.11g\fR\(em Standard for Wireless LAN Technology - Rev. G, 2003
