'\" te
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH ATU 7D "Mar 26, 2009"
.SH NAME
atu \- Atmel AT76C50x USB IEEE 802.11b Wireless Device Driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBatu 802.11b\fR wireless driver is a multi-threaded, loadable, clonable,
GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting the Atmel AT76C50x chipset-based wireless
devices.
.SS "Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The \fBatu\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate and
mode. Supported 802.11b data rates are 1, 2, 5.5, and 11 Mbits/sec.
.sp
.LP
The \fBatu\fR driver supports only BSS networks (also known as \fBap\fR or
\fBinfrastructure\fR networks).
.sp
.LP
\fBopen\fR (or \fBopen-system\fR) and \fBshared key\fR authentication modes are
supported. Encryption types WEP40 and WEP104 are supported.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/atu*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Special character device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/atu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/atu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x86
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBwificonfig\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdlpi\fR(7P),
\fBgld\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fI802.11 - Wireless LAN Media Access Control and Physical Layer Specification
- IEEE, 2001\fR
