'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUDIOLS 7D "Sep 8, 2009"
.SH NAME
audiols \- Creative Audigy LS audio device support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiols\fR driver provides support for the Creative Audigy LS audio
device.
.sp
.LP
There are numerous devices marketed under the Audigy brand by Creative, but
only Audigy LS devices are supported by this driver.
.sp
.LP
This device is capable of 5.1 surround sound.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audiols\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/audiols\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
64-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudio\fR(7I), \fBmixer\fR(7I),
\fBstreamio\fR(7I)
