'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUDIOTS 7D "May 12, 2009"
.SH NAME
audiots \- Acer Laboratories Inc. M5451 audio processor interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiots\fR device uses the ALI M5451 audio processor and an AC-97 Codec
to implement the audio device interface.
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudiots\fR device provides support for the internal speaker, headphone,
line out, line in, and microphone.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/audiots\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit \fBaudiots\fR driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audiots.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBaudiots\fR driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC
_
Stability level	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudio\fR(7I), \fBmixer\fR(7I),
\fBstreamio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
Acer Laboratories Inc. \fBM5451\fR PCI Audio Processor Technical Specification
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages can appear on the system
console:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The interrupt rate in \fBaudiots.conf\fR is set too low. It has been reset to
the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudiots.conf\fR to a higher
interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The interrupt rate set in \fBaudiots.conf\fR is set too high. It has been reset
to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudiots.conf\fR to a lower
interrupt rate.
.RE

