'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUDIOIXP 7D "May 12, 2009"
.SH NAME
audioixp \- ATI IXP400 south bridge audio digital controller interface
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudioixp\fR device uses the IXP400 south bridge audio digital controller
and a AC-97 Codec to implement the audio device interface.
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudioixp\fR  device  provides  support  for  the internal speaker,
headphone, line out, line in, and microphone.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audioixp.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Driver configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audioixp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/audioixp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
64-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	PC-based system
_
Stability level	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudio\fR(7I), \fBmixer\fR(7I),
\fBstreamio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIATI IXP400 South Bridge Data Sheet\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages may appear on the system
console:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The interrupt rate in \fBaudioixp.conf\fR is set too low. It has been reset to
the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudioixp.conf\fR to a higher
interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The interrupt rate set in \fBaudioixp.conf\fR is set too high. It has been
reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudioixp.conf\fR to a
lower interrupt rate.
.RE

