'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH AUDIO810 7D "May 13, 2009"
.SH NAME
audio810 \- Intel ICH series, nVidia nForce series and AMD 8111 audio core
support
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBaudio810\fR driver provides support for AC 97 audio controllers embedded
in Intel ICH, nVidia nForce, and AMD 8111 chips.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audio810\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
32-bit kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/audio810\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
64-bit x86 kernel driver module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/audio810.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
\fBaudio810\fR driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	PC-based systems
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBaudio\fR(7I), \fBmixer\fR(7I),
\fBstreamio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIAMD-8111 HyperTransport I/O Hub Data Sheet\fR \(em Advanced Micro Devices
Inc.
.sp
.LP
\fIALC655 Specification\fR \(em Realtek Inc.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Some laptops (including Sony VAIO, among others), have their on-board amplifier
powered down by default, meaning that audio is suppressed even if hardware and
the \fBaudio810\fR driver are working normally. To correct this, set the
\fBac97-invert-amp=1\fR property in the \fB/kernel/drv/audio810.conf\fR to
power-up the amplifier.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages may appear on the system
console:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too low\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The interrupt rate in \fBaudio810.conf\fR is set too low. It has been reset to
the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudio810.conf\fR to a higher
interrupt rate.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBplay-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fBrecord-interrupts too high\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The interrupt rate set in\fBaudio810.conf\fR is set too high. It has been
reset to the rate specified in the message. Update \fBaudio810.conf\fR to a
lower interrupt rate.
.RE

