'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH BCM_SATA 7D "Aug 31, 2009"
.SH NAME
bcm_sata \- Broadcom HT1000 SATA controller driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.sp
.LP
\fBsata@\fR\fIunit-address\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBbcm_sata\fR driver is a SATA HBA driver that supports Broadcom HT1000
SATA HBA controllers.
.sp
.LP
HT1000 SATA controllers are compliant with the Serial ATA 1.0 specification and
SATA II Phase 1.0 specification (the extension to the SATA 1.0 specification).
These HT1000 controllers support standard SATA features including SATA-II
disks, NCQ, hotplug, ATAPI devices and port multiplier.
.sp
.LP
The driver does not currently support NCQ and port multiplier features.
.SS "Configuration"
.sp
.LP
The \fBbcm_sata\fR module contains no user configurable parameters.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/bcm_sata\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/bcm_sata\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcfgadm\fR(1M), \fBcfgadm_sata\fR(1M), \fBprtconf\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsata\fR(7D), \fBsd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
