.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 QLogic Corporation. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH BNXE 7D "Jul 17, 2014"
.SH NAME
bnxe \- QLogic NetXtreme II 10 Gigabit Ethernet Device Driver

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
/dev/bnxe*
.ad

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B bnxe
Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded, loadable,
clonable, GLDv3-based driver supporting the Data Link Provider Interface,
.BR dlpi (7P),
over QLogic NetXtreme II 10 Gigabit Ethernet controllers.  Multiple
NetXtreme II controllers installed within the system are supported by
the driver.

The
.B bnxe
driver provides support for the NetXtreme II 10 Gigabit line of devices.
Functions include chip initialization, frame transmit and receive,
multicast and promiscuous support, error recovery and reporting. These
devices provide 10/100/1000/2500/10000 Mbps networking interfaces.

.SH DRIVER CONFIGURATION

The primary methods of configuration are via modification of the
.I /kernel/drv/bnxe.conf
file or execution of the
.BR dladm (1M)
utility. There are many configuration items available and all are thoroughly
documented in the
.I /kernel/drv/bnxe.conf
file. Note that for
changes to this file to take affect the driver must be reloaded or the system
rebooted. In order to reload the driver with new configuration changes all
.B bnxe
interfaces must be first unplumbed and then the
.BR update_drv (1M)
tool must be executed. For the configuration items that do not require a
driver reload the
.BR dladm (1M)
tool can be used to dynamically change the option.

.SH DEBUGGING

.SS kstat

There are many statistics exposed via
.B kstat
by
.BR bnxe .

The main groups are:
.TP
"intr"
for interrupts stats
.TP
"l2chip"
for layer 2 chip stats,
.TP
"l2driver"
for layer 2 driver stats,
.TP
"l2stats"
for general layer 2 stats,
.TP
"link"
for detailed link status,
.TP
"mac"
for GLDv3 MAC layer stats,
.TP
"rxq#"
for Rx ring stats,
.TP
"txq#"
for Tx ring stats, and
.TP
"stats"
for general driver stats and version info.
.LP
To get a list of all the individual statistics in these goups run:
.na
% kstat -m bnxe -i 0 -l
.ad

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
/dev/bnxe[instance]
.ad
.RS 16n
.B bnxe
Character special device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
/kernel/drv/bnxe.conf
.ad
.RS 16n
Driver configuration file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
/kernel/drv/bnxe
.ad
.RS 16n
32-bit i386 driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
/kernel/drv/amd64/bnxe
.ad
.RS 16n
64-bit i386 driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
/kernel/drv/sparcv9/bnxe
.ad
.RS 16n
SPARC driver binary.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dladm (1M),
.BR netstat (1M),
.BR ifconfig (1M),
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR gld (7P)
.LP
.I QLogic NetXtreme II 10 Gigabit Adapter Driver Installation Notes
.LP
.I Writing Device Drivers
.LP
.I STREAMS Programming Guide
.LP
.I Network Interfaces Guide
