.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2013 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
.\"
.TH CPQARY3 7D Aug 26, 2013"
.SH NAME
cpqary3 - provides disk and SCSI tape support for HP Smart Array controllers
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The cpqary3 module provides low-level interface routines between the common
disk I/O subsystem and the HP SMART Array controllers. The cpqary3 driver
provides disk and SCSI tape support for the HP Smart Array controllers.
.LP
Please refer to the cpqary3 release notes, for the supported HP Smart Array
Controllers and Storage boxes.
.LP
Each controller should be the sole initiator on a SCSI bus. Auto
configuration code determines if the adapter is present at the Configured
address and what types of devices are attached to it.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Use the Array Configuration Utility to configure the controllers. Each
controller can support up to 32 logical volumes. In addition, each controller
supports up to a maximum of 28 connected SCSI tape drives.
With 1.90 and later versions of cpqary3 driver, HP Smart Array SAS controllers,
having Firmware Revision 5.10 or later, will support 64 logical drives. This
firmware also supports Dual Domian Multipath configurations.
.LP
The driver attempts to initialize itself in accordance with the information
found in the configuration file, /kernel/drv/cpqary3.conf.
.LP
New component - hmaeventd which logs the storage events onto console and to the
Integrated Management Log is made a part of HPQhma 5.0.0 package, which is not
part of the operating system.  Therefore, by default, notify on event
functionality is disabled in the driver from 2.1.0 onwards.  Storage event
logging may be enabled in the driver by modifying cpqary3.conf to set the
cpqary3_noe property to "on".  Modification of driver properties requires
reloading the driver, which in most cases will occur only following a reboot of
the system.
.LP
The target driver's configuration file shall need entries if support is needed
for targets numbering greater than the default number of targets supported by
the corresponding target driver.
.LP
By default, entries for SCSI target numbers 0 to 15 are present in sd.conf.
Entries for target numbers 16 and above must be added to the \&'scsi' class in
sd.conf to support additional corresponding logical volumes.
.LP
If SCSI tape drives are connected to the supported controllers, entries for
target IDs from 33 to 33+N must be added in the /kernel/drv/st.conf file under
\&'scsi' class, where N is the total number of SCSI tape drives connected to the
controller with largest number of tape drives connected to it, in the existing
configuration. For example, two supported controller, c1 and c2 are present in
the system. If controller c1 has two (2) tape drives and controller c2 has five
(5) tape drives connected, then entries for target IDs 33 thru 38 are required
under 'scsi' class in /kernel/drv/st.conf file. The maximum number of tape
drives that can be connected to a controller is 28. With 1.90 and later versions
of cpqary3 driver, if tape drives are connected to Smart Array SAS controllers,
then target ID entries for tape drives from 65 to 65+N must be added in
/kernel/drv/st.conf file under the \&'scsi' class.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B /kernel/drv/cpqary3.conf
- configuration file for CPQary3
.PD
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR driver.conf (4),
.BR sd (7D),
.BR st (7D)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The Smart Array controllers supported by the current version of the
cpqary3 driver do not support 'format unit' SCSI command. Hence, selecting
\&'format' option under 'format' utility main menu is not supported. In addition,
the 'repair' option under 'format' utility main menu is not supported as this
operation is not applicable to Logical volumes connected to the supported Smart
Array controllers.
