'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CTSMC 7D "Dec 7, 2003"
.SH NAME
ctsmc \- System Management  Controller driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBctsmc\fR system management controller driver is a multithreaded,
loadable, clonable STREAMS hardware driver that supports communication with the
system management controller device on SUNW,NetraCT-410, SUNW,NetraCT-810 and
SUNW,Netra-CP2300 platforms.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsmc\fR device provides a Keyboard Controller  Style (KCS) interface as
described in the \fIIntelligent  Platform Management Interface (IPMI) Version
1.5\fR specification. The \fBctsmc\fR driver enables user-land and  kernel-land
clients to access services provided by \fBsmc\fR hardware.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/ctsmc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBctsmc\fR special character device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/platform/sun4u/kernel/drv/sparcv9/ctsmc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64 bit ELF kernel driver
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programmers Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIIntelligent Platform Management Interface (IPMI). Version 1.5\fR - PICMIG,
February, 2001
