'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DCA 7D "Aug 14, 2005"
.SH NAME
dca \- Crypto Accelerator device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBpci108e,5454@\fIpci-slot\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci108e,5455@\fIpci-slot\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci108e,5456@\fIpci-slot\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci14e4,5820@\fIpci-slot\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci14e4,5821@\fIpci-slot\fR\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpci14e4,5822@\fIpci-slot\fR\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdca\fR device driver is a multi-threaded, loadable hardware driver
supporting Sun PCI-based (\fBpci108e,5454\fR) cryptographic accelerators, such
as the Sun Crypto Accelerator 1000.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdca\fR driver requires the presence of  Solaris Cryptographic Framework
for applications and kernel clients to access the provided services.
.SH EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdca\fR driver maintains the following statistics:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3desjobs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for 3DES encryption.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB3desbytes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of bytes submitted to the device for 3DES encryption.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrsapublic\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for RSA public key operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrsaprivate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for RSA private key operations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdsasign\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for DSA signing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdsaverify\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted to the device for DSA verification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrngjobs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted for pure entropy generation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrngbytes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of bytes of pure entropy requested from the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrngsha1jobs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of jobs submitted for entropy generation, with SHA-1
post-processing.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrngsha1bytes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Total number of bytes of entropy requested from the device, with SHA-1
post-processing.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Additional statistics may be supplied for Sun support personnel,  but are not
useful to end users and are not documented here.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdca\fR driver can be configured by defining properties in
\fB/kernel/drv/dca.conf\fR which override the default settings. The following
properties are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnostats\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Disables the generation of statistics. This property may be used to help
prevent traffic analysis, but this may inhibit support personnel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrngdirect\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Disables the SHA-1 post-processing of generated entropy. This may give "truer"
random numbers, but it may also introduce the risk of external biases
influencing the distribution of generated random numbers.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC
_
Interface Stability	Unstable
.TE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/dca.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
\fBdca\fR configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/dca\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit ELF kernel driver (SPARC)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/dca\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
32-bit ELF kernel driver (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/dca\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit ELF kernel driver (AMD64)
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcryptoadm\fR(1M), \fBkstat\fR(1M), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBdriver.conf\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Cryptographic Framework.\fR
