'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DCAM1394 7D "May 19, 2004"
.SH NAME
dcam1394 \- 1394-based digital camera (IIDC) driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <sys/dcam/dcam1394_io.h>\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdcam1394\fR driver supports devices implementing the \fI1394 Trade
Association Digital Camera Specification\fR (also referred to as the IIDC
specification).  Only a subset of the specification is supported.
.SH READING DATA
.sp
.LP
Isochronous data is read from the driver frame-by-frame and is maintained
within the driver in a ring buffer.
.sp
.LP
Video frames are read from the isochronous input device using \fBread\fR(2).
.sp
.LP
The \fBdcam1394_frame_t\fR structure describes the frame layout and is defined
as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     struct {
          unsigned int vid_mode;
          unsigned int seq_num;
          hrtime_t     timestamp;
          unsigned char *buff;
     };
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The size to allocate for the structure is determined by the video mode for
which the camera is configured. Possible values for the vid_mode field are
listed under DCAM1394_PARAM_VID_MODE below.
.SH IOCTL REQUESTS
.sp
.LP
The following ioctl requests are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_CAM_RESET\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reset the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_REG_READ\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Read the indicated dcam/IIDC register. The argument is a pointer to a
\fBdcam1394_reg_io_t\fR structure, which is defined as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    struct {
         unsigned int offs;
         unsigned int val;
    };
.fi
.in -2

The offs field should be set to the offset of the register from which to read.
Register offset values are defined in the \fI1394 Trade Association Digital
Camera Specification\fR.
.sp
After the operation is completed, the camera register value is put in the
\fBval\fR field.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_REG_WRITE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Write the indicated dcam/IIDC register. The argument is a pointer to a
\fBdcam1394_reg_io_t\fR structure (described above).
.sp
The offs field should be set to the offset of the register from which to read.
The register offset values are defined in the \fI1394 Trade Association Digital
Camera Specification\fR.
.sp
The val field should be set to the value to be written to the camera register.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_PARAM_GET\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Gets a list of parameters associated with a camera. The argument is a pointer
to a \fBdcam1394_param_list_t\fR structure (described below). The parameter
list is accessed through macros defined below.
.sp
The paramter list only supports Format 1 video formats.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_PARAM_SET\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Sets a list of parameters associated with a camera. The argument is a pointer
to a \fBdcam1394_param_list_t structure\fR (described below). The parameter
list is accessed through macros defined below.
.sp
The paramter list only supports Format 1 video formats.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_FRAME_RCV_START\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Start receiving video frames from the camera.
.sp
The contents of the ring buffer may be accessed by reading the isochronous
stream device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_FRAME_RCV_STOP\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Stop receiving frames from the camera.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_RING_BUFF_FLUSH\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Flush the frames in the ring buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_CMD_FRAME_SEQ_NUM_COUNT_RESET\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Reset frame sequence number.
.RE

.SH PARAMETER LIST ACCESS
.sp
.LP
The parameter list is initialized and access through macros. The data type for
the parameter list is \fBdcam1394_param_list_t\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following macros are used to access the parameter list:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPARAM_LIST_INIT(param_list)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Initialize the parameter list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPARAM_LIST_ADD(param_list, param, subparam)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Add a parameter to the list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPARAM_LIST_REMOVE(param_list, param, subparam)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Remove a parameter from the list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPARAM_LIST_IS_ENTRY(param_list, param, subparam)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if a specific parameter is in the list.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPARAM_VAL(param_list, param, subparam)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Value of a specified parameter.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBPARAM_ERR(param_list, param, subparam)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if a specific parameter is successfully set.
.RE

.sp
.LP
When no subparam value is required, the value DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_NONE may be
used.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
The following parameters may appear in the list:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_POWER_CTRL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if the camera can be turned off and on through software. The subparam
value is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_POWER\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls or queries if the camera is powered up. Verify this feature using
DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_POWER_CTRL before use. The subparam field is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_VID_MOD\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific video mode is supported by the camera.
.sp
subparam is one of the following and is used to determine if a specified video
mode is supported by the camera:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_0
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_YUV_444_160_120
       Video mode is 4:4:4, YUV color space, 160x120 resolution.

  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_1
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_YUV_422_320_240
       Video mode is 4:2:2, YUV color space, 320x240 resolution.

  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_2
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_YUV_411_640_480
       Video mode is 4:1:1, YUV color space, 640x480 resolution.

  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_3
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_YUV_422_640_480
       Video mode is 4:2:2, YUV color space, 640x480 resolution.

  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_4
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_RGB_640_480
       Video mode is RGB color space, 640x480 resolution.

  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_5
  DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VID_MODE_Y_640_480
       Video mode is Y color space, 640x480 resolution.
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_VID_MODE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls or queries the current video mode of the camera.  The subparam field
is ignored. When selecting the video mode, it should be compatible with the
capability of the camera, which may be determined by checking the
DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_VID_MODE parameter.
.sp
The value of this parameter may be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_0
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_YUV_444_160_120
       Video mode is 4:4:4, YUV color space, 160x120 resolution.

  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_1
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_YUV_422_320_240
       Video mode is 4:2:2, YUV color space, 320x240 resolution.

  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_2
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_YUV_411_640_480
       Video mode is 4:1:1, YUV color space, 640x480 resolution.

  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_3
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_YUV_422_640_480
       Video mode is 4:2:2, YUV color space, 640x480 resolution.

  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_4
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_RGB_640_480
       Video mode is RGB color space, 640x480 resolution.

  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_5
  DCAM1394_VID_MODE_Y_640_480
       Video mode is Y color space, 640x480 resolution.
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_0\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific frame rate is supported by the camera in video mode 0
(4:4:4, YUV, 160x120).
.sp
subparam is one of the following and used to determine if a specified frame
rate is supported by the camera:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_0
          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_3_75_FPS
               Frame rate is 3.75 frames/second.

          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_1
          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_7_5_FPS
               Frame rate is 7.5 frames/second.

          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_2
          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_15_FPS
               Frame rate is 15 frames/second.

          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_3
          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_30_FPS
               Frame rate is 30 frames/second.

          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_4
          DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_FRAME_RATE_60_FPS
               Frame rate is 60 frames/second.
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_1\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific frame rate is supported by the camera in video mode 1
(4:2:2, YUV, 320x240). See DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_0 for a
listing of valid subparam values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_2\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific frame rate is supported by the camera in video mode 2
(4:1:1, YUV, 640x480). See DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_0 for a
listing of valid subparam values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_3\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific frame rate is supported by the camera in video mode 3
(4:2:2, YUV, 640x480). See DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_0 for a
listing of valid subparam values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_4\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific frame rate is supported by the camera in video mode 4.
(RGB, 640x480). See DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_0 for a listing of
valid subparam values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_5\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries if a specific frame rate is supported by the camera in video mode 5.
(Y, 640x480). See DCAM1394_PARAM_CAP_FRAME_RATE_VID_MODE_0 for a listing of
valid subparam values.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_FRAME_RATE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls or queries the current frame rate of the camera.  The subparam field
is ignored. When selecting a frame rate, it should be compatible with the
capability of the camera, which can be determined by querying one of the frame
rate capability parameters above.
.sp
The value of this parameter may be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
          DCAM1394_FRAME_RATE_0
          DCAM1394_3_75_FPS
               The frame rate is 3.75 frames per second.

          DCAM1394_FRAME_RATE_1
          DCAM1394_7_5_FPS
               The frame rate is 7.5 frames per second.

          DCAM1394_FRAME_RATE_2
          DCAM1394_15_FPS
               The frame rate is 15 frames per second.

          DCAM1394_FRAME_RATE_3
          DCAM1394_30_FPS
               The frame rate is 30 frames per second.

          DCAM1394_FRAME_RATE_4
          DCAM1394_60_FPS
               The frame rate is 60 frames per second.
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_RING_BUFF_CAPACITY\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls or queries the number of frames that the ring buffer may hold. This
value can range between 2 and 30. The subparam field is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_RING_BUFF_NUM_FRAMES_READY\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries the number of frames in the ring buffer ready to be accessed. The
subparam field is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_RING_BUFF_READ_PTR_INCR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controls or queries the number of bytes to advance the read pointer as it
consumes data from the ring buffer. The subparam field is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_FRAME_NUM_BYTES\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries the number of bytes in a frame at the current video mode. The subparam
field is ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_STATUS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Queries the parameter status. The subparam field is ignored.
.sp
The values for the parameter status is a bit field with the following values
possibly set:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_STATUS_FRAME_RCV_DONE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Frame successfully received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_STATUS_RING_BUFF_LOST_FRAME\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A frame has been lost while processing the ring buffer.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_STATUS_PARAM_CHANGE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A parameter has been changed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_STATUS_FRAME_SEQ_NUM_COUNT_OVERFLOW\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Frame sequence number has reached its maximum possible value and has
overflowed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_STATUS_CAM_UNPLUG\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Camera has been unplugged.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the
brightness of the camera.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_PRESENCE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the feature is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_CAP_ON_OFF\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the feature may be enabled and disabled. May only be queried.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_ON_OFF\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the feature is enabled.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_CAP_CTRL_AUTO\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the automatic control of this feature is supported by the camera.
May only be queried.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_CAP_CTRL_MANUAL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the manual control of this feature is supported by the camera. May
only be queried.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_CTRL_MODE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the feature is in auto or manual mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_MIN_VAL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Minimum value of the feature. May only be queried.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_MAX_VAL\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Maximum value of the feature. May only be queried.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VALUE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Current value of the feature.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_CAP_READ\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Indicates if the feature may be read. May only be                queried.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_EXPOSURE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the
exposure of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described
under DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_SHARPNESS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the
sharpness of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described
under DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_WHITE_BALANCE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the white
balance of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described
under DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS, except for DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VALUE.
DCAM1394_SUBPARAM_VALUE is replaced by two distinct subparams.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_U_VALUE\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
U or B component of the white balance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_SUBPARAM_V_VALUE\fR
.ad
.RS 29n
V or R component of the white balance.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_HUE\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the hue of
the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_SATURATION\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the
saturation of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described
under DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_GAMMA\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the gamma
of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_SHUTTER\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the
sharpness of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described
under DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_GAIN\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the gain of
the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_IRIS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the iris of
the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_FOCUS\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the focus
of the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_ZOOM\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the zoom of
the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_PAN\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the pan of
the camera. The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDCAM1394_PARAM_TILT\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Query or control a camera feature. This feature queries or controls the tilt of
the camera.The subparams supported by this feature are described under
DCAM1394_PARAM_BRIGHTNESS.
.RE

.SH DEVICE SPECIAL FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/dcam\fIN\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Device node for isochronous input from camera.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/dcamctl\fIN\fR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Device node for camera control.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkernel/drv/sparcv9/dcam1394\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit ELF kernel module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkernel/drv/dcam1394\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF kernel module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBhci1394\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fI1394 Trade Association Digital Camera Specification, Version 1.04 - 1996\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE Std 1394-2000 Standard for a High Performance Serial Bus - 2000\fR
