.\" Copyright 2014 Garrett D'Amore <garrett@damore.org>
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS
.\" ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
.\" COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
.\" NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF
.\" USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
.\" ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
.\" (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
.\" THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE
.\"
.Dd "Aug 7, 2014"
.Dt ELXL 7D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm elxl
.Nd 3Com Etherlink XL device driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa /dev/elxl
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the 3Com Etherlink XL
family of Ethernet and Fast Ethernet PCI controllers. These are often known
by their part numbers, most often 3c905 or 3c900 variants.
.Lp
The 3c905 devices generally support some form of 100 Mbps Ethernet,
whereas the 3c900 devices usually only support 10 Mbps.  Some devices
support legacy media such as 10BASE-15, 10BASE-2, and even 10BASE-FL.
.
Where applicable, the devices support auto-negotiation, both full and
half duplex, etc.  They also support full size MTUs (1500 bytes),
even when used with VLANs.
.
.Lp
The device driver supports the
.Xr ieee802.3 5
properties, which can be configured with
.Xr dladm 1M .
.Lp
In addition, for devices with multiple external media ports, the driver
supports a driver-specific
.Xr dladm 1M
property called
.Sy media ,
which can take one of the following values, depending on the available
media options on the device:
.Lp
.Bl -tag -compact -offset indent -width Sy
.It Sy mii
Media Indendent Interface (MII), also 100BASE-TX
.It Sy tp-hdx
10 Mbps twisted pair, half-duplex
.It Sy tp-fdx
10 Mbps twisted pair full-duplex
.It Sy fx-hdx
100BASE-FX (fiber), half-duplex
.It Sy fx-hdx
100BASE-FX (fiber), full-duplex
.It Sy bnc
10BASE-2
.Pq BNC, aka Dq thin-net
.It Sy aui
10BASE-15
.Pq aka Dq thick-net
.It Sy fl-hdx
10BASE-FL (fiber), half-duplex
.It Sy fl-fdx
10BASE-FL (fiber), full-duplex
.El
.Lp
The specific media options available can be queried with the
device-specific
.Sy available_media
.Xr dladm 1M
property.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /dev/elxl
.It Pa /dev/elxl
Special character device.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dladm 1M ,
.Xr ifconfig 1M ,
.Xr pci 4 ,
.Xr ieee802.3 5 ,
.Xr dlpi 7P
.Rs
.%T IEEE 802.3: Ethernet
.%Q IEEE Standards Association
.Re
