'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FP 7D "Jan 10, 2008"
.SH NAME
fp \- Sun Fibre Channel port driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfp\fR driver is a Sun fibre channel nexus driver that enables fibre
channel topology discovery, device discovery, fibre channel adapter port
management and other capabilities through well-defined fibre channel adapter
driver interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The \fBfp\fR driver requires the presence of a fabric name server in fabric and
public loop topologies to discover fibre channel devices. In private loop
topologies, the driver discovers devices by performing \fBPLOGI\fR to all valid
\fBAL_PA\fRs, provided that devices do not participate in \fBLIRP\fR and
\fBLILP\fR stages of loop initialization. The \fBfp\fR driver also discovers
devices in N_Port point-to-point topologies.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The \fBfp\fR driver is configured by defining  properties in the \fBfp.conf\fR
file. Note that you must reboot the system to have any changes you make to
\fBfp.conf\fR take effect. The \fBfp\fR driver supports the following
properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmpxio-disable\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Solaris I/O multipathing is enabled or disabled on fibre channel devices with
the mpxio-disable property. Specifying mpxio-disable="no" activates I/O
multipathing, while mpxio-disable="yes" disables the feature. Solaris I/O
multipathing may be enabled or disabled on a per port basis. Per port settings
override the global setting for the specified ports. The following example
shows how to disable multipathing on port 0 whose parent is
/pci@8,600000/SUNW,qlc@4:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
name="fp"    parent="/pci@8,600000/SUNW,qlc@4"    port=0
mpxio-disable="yes";
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBmanual_configuration_only\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Automatic configuration of SCSI devices in the fabric is enabled by default and
thus allows all devices discovered in the SAN zone to  be enumerated  in the
kernel's device tree automatically. The \fBmanual_configuration_only\fR
property may be configured  to disable the default behavior and force the
manual configuration of the devices in the SAN. Specifying
manual_configuration_only=1 disables the automatic configuration of devices.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBpwwn-lun-blacklist\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allows you to specify target port WWNs and LUN numbers you do not want
configured. LUN numbers are interpreted as decimals. White spaces and commas
(',') can be used in the list of LUN numbers.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
     #
     # pwwn-lun-blacklist=
     # "target-port-wwn,lun-list"
     #
     # To prevent LUNs 1 and 2 from being configured for target
     # port 510000f010fd92a1 and target port 510000e012079df1, set:
     #
     # pwwn-lun-blacklist=
     # "510000f010fd92a1,1,2",
     # "510000e012079df1,1,2";
     #
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/fp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
32-bit ELF kernel driver (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/fp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
64-bit ELF kernel driver (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/fp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
64-bit ELF kernel driver (SPARC)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/fp.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fBfp\fR driver configuration file.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
mpxio-disable	Uncommitted
_
manual_configuration_only	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcfgadm_fp\fR(1M), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBstmsboot\fR(1M),
\fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBfcp\fR(7D), \fBfctl\fR(7D),
\fBscsi_vhci\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel Physical and Signaling Interface (FC-PH) ANSI X3.230: 1994\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel Generic Services (FC-GS-2) Project 1134-D\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL) ANSI X3.272-1996\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel Protocol for SCSI (FCP) ANSI X3.269-1996\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISCSI-3 Architecture Model (SAM) Fibre Channel Private Loop SCSI Direct
Attach (FC-PLDA) ANSI X3.270-1996\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISCSI Direct Attach (FC-PLDA) ANSI X3.270-1996\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISCSI Direct Attach (FC-PLDA) NCITS TR-19:1998\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFabric Loop Attachment (FC-FLA), NCITS TR-20:1998\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
In N_Port point-to-point topologies, FCP error recovery does not work across
events such as link bounce/cable pull. I/O to devices with FCP-2/FCP-3 support
(for example, FC tape drives) will be disrupted by such events.
