'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH HCI1394 7D "Aug 30, 2005"
.SH NAME
hci1394 \- 1394 OpenHCI host controller driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBfirewire@unit-address\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBhci1394\fR host controller driver is an IEEE 1394 compliant nexus driver
that supports the \fI1394 Open Host Controller Interface Specification 1.0\fR,
an industry standard developed by Sun, Apple, Compaq, Intel, Microsoft,
National Semconductor, and Texas Instruments. The \fBhci1394\fR driver supports
asynchronous transfers, isochronous transfers, and bus reset management. The
\fBhci1394\fR driver also supports the nexus device control interface.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/hci1394\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/hci1394\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/hci1394\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC, x86, PCI-based systems
_
Interface Stability	Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBieee1394\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE 1394 - IEEE Standard for a High Performance Serial Bus\fR
.sp
.LP
\fI1394 Open Host Controller Interface Specification 1.0\fR
