'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ISER 7D "Mar 30, 2009"
.SH NAME
iser \- iSCSI Extensions for Remote DMA driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The iSER driver accelerates the iSCSI protocol by mapping the data transfer
phases to Remote DMA (RDMA) operations. No iSER configuration is required for
its use, but an RDMA-capable protocol (RCaP) must be configured and enabled on
both target and initiator endpoints.
.sp
.LP
Currently, InfiniBand RC is the supported RCaP, and for discovery IP over IB
must be configured on both the initiator and target. If Infiniband (IB)
hardware is present and an Infiniband reliable-connected (RC) connection can be
established then an iSER-enabled initiator uses iSER connections to
iSER-enabled targets. Otherwise the connection is established using IP-based
connectivity.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/iser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
32-bit ELF kernel driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/iser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel drive
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/iser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
64-bit AMD64 ELF kernel driver
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/iser.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Driver configuration file
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBiscsiadm\fR(1M), \fBitadm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBibd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Devices and File Systems\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIRFC 3720 Internet Small Computer Systems Interface (iSCSI)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIRFC 5046 iSCSI Extensions for RDM\fR
