'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NPE 7D "Oct 12, 2005"
.SH NAME
npe \- PCI Express bus nexus driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnpe\fR nexus driver is used on X64 servers for PCI Express Root Complex
devices that provide PCI Express interconnect. This driver is compliant to PCI
Express base specification, Revision 1.0a.
.sp
.LP
This nexus driver provides support for the following features: Access to
extended configuration space, IEEE 1275 extensions for PCI Express, Base line
PCI Express error handling and PCI Express MSI interrupts.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/npe\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF kernel module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB/platform/i86pc/kernel/drv/amd64/npe\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit ELF kernel module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x64 PCI Express-based systems
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpcie\fR(4), \fBpcie_pci\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIPCI Express Base Specification v1.0a\fR \(em 2003
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIIEEE 1275 PCI Bus Binding\fR \(em 1998
.sp
.LP
\fIhttp://playground.sun.com/1275/bindings/pci/pci-express.txt\fR
