'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2011 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NV_SATA 7D "Sep 25, 2011"
.SH NAME
nv_sata \- NVIDIA CK804/MCP04/MCP51/MCP55/MCP61 SATA controller driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBsata@unit-address\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnv_sata\fR driver is a SATA HBA driver that supports NVIDIA CK804/MCP04
and MCP51/MCP55/MCP61 SATA HBA controllers. Note that while these controllers
support standard SATA features including SATA-II drives, NCQ, hotplug and ATAPI
drives, the driver currently does not support NCQ features.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnv_sata\fR module contains no user configurable parameters.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/nv_sata\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit \fBELF\fR kernel module (x86).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/nv_sata\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit \fBELF\fR kernel module (x86).
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attribute:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcfgadm\fR(1M), \fBcfgadm_sata\fR(1M), \fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBsata\fR(7D),
\fBsd\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
