'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PCATA 7D "Mar 2, 2007"
.SH NAME
pcata \- PCMCIA ATA card device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
pcata@socket#:a -u
.fi

.LP
.nf
pcata@socket#:a -u,raw
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBPCMCIA ATA\fR card device driver supports \fBPCMCIA ATA\fR disk and
flash cards that follow the following standards:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBPC\fR card 2.01 compliance (\fBMBR+fdisk\fR table required for all
platforms).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBPC\fR card \fBATA\fR 2.01 compliance.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBPC\fR card services 2.1 compliance.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The driver supports standard \fBPCMCIA ATA\fR cards that contain a Card
Information Structure (CIS). For \fBPCMCIA,\fR nodes are created in
\fB/devices\fR that include the socket number as one component of the device
name referred to by the node. However, the names in \fB/dev\fR, \fB/dev/dsk\fR,
and \fB/dev/rdsk\fR follow the current conventions for \fBATA\fR devices, which
do not encode the socket number in any part of the name. For example, you may
have the following:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l | l
l | l | l .
\fBPlatform\fR	\fB/devices name\fR	\fB/dev/dsk name\fR
_
\fBx86\fR	\fB/devices/isa/pcic@1,3e0 /disk@0:a\fR	/dev/dsk/c1d0s0
_
SPARC	T{
\fB/devices/iommu@f,e0000000 /sbus@f,e0001000 /SUNW, pcmcia@3,0 /disk@0:a\fR
T}	/dev/dsk/c1d0s0
.TE

.SH PRECONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
If a PC Card ATA device is recognized, the pcata driver is automatically
loaded, IRQs allocated, devices nodes created, and special files created (if
they do not already exist).
.SS "Known Problems and Limitations"
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
You need to umount the file system before removing the disk.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The \fBufs\fR file systems on removable media (PC Card ATA) should have one of
the \fBonerror={panic, lock, umount\fR} mount options set.
.RE
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
Configuration topics include initial installation and configuration,
identifying an unrecognized device, special files and hot-plugging.
.SS "Initial Installation and Configuration"
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Install the Solaris software.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Boot the system.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Insert the PC card ATA device.
.RE
.SS "Identifying an Unrecognized Device"
.sp
.LP
If you insert a PC card ATA device and it is not recognized (no special files
created), use the \fBprtconf\fR command to identify the problem.
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Run the \fBprtconf -D\fR command to see if your \fBpcata\fR card is
recognized. (A recognized device will appear at the end of the \fBprtconf\fR
output. For example:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# prtconf -D
\&.  .  .
pcic, instance #0 (driver name: pcic)
    .  .  .
   disk, instance #0
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
If \fBpcata\fR does not appear in the \fBprtconf\fR output, there is a
problem with the PC card adapter configuration or with the hardware. Check to
see whether the problem is with the card or the adapter by trying to use the
card on another machine and by seeing if it works on the same machine using
DOS.
.RE
.SS "Special Files"
.sp
.LP
For PC card devices, nodes are created in \fB/devices\fR that include the
socket number as one component of a device name that the node refers to.
However, the \fB/prtc/dev\fR names and the names in \fB/dev/dsk\fR and
\fB/dev/rdsk\fR do follow the current convention for ATA devices, which do not
encode the socket number in any part of the name.
.SS "Hot-Plugging"
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If you want to remove the disk, you must unmount the file system.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Use the \fBmkfs_pcfs\fR(1M) command to create a \fBpcfs\fR file system:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mkfs -F pcfs /dev/rdsk/c#d#p0:d
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
To mount a \fBpcfs\fR file system, type:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mount -F pcfs /dev/dsk/c#d#p0:c /mnt
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If you want to create a \fBufs\fR file system, use the \fBnewfs\fR command and
type:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# newfs /dev/rdsk/c#d#s#
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
To mount a \fBufs\fR file system, type:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# mount -F ufs /dev/dsk/c#d#s# /mnt
.fi
.in -2

.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
To create a Solaris partition, run the format command and go to the Partition
menu. For more information, see the \fBformat\fR(1M) man page.
.RE
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/pcata\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBpcata\fR driver
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBformat\fR(1M), \fBmount\fR(1M), \fBnewfs\fR(1M), \fBpcmcia\fR(7D),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBpcfs\fR(7FS)
