'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH physmem 7D "15 Nov 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Devices"
.SH NAME
physmem \-  physmem driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBphysmem\fR driver is a private mechanism used by diagnostic test suites
to test the physical memory of the       system.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB/dev/physmem\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Kernel module.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface stability Private
.TE

.SH CAUTION
.sp
.LP
This driver is used by Sun internal diagnostic programs only. Any other use may
have a harmful impact on the system.
