'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PM 7D "Sep 20, 1999"
.SH NAME
pm \- Power Management driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/pm\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The Power Management ( \fBpm\fR) driver provides an interface for applications
to configure devices within the system for Power Management. The interface is
provided through \fBioctl\fR(2) commands. The \fBpm\fR driver may be accessed
using \fB/dev/pm\fR.
.SS "Power Management Framework"
.sp
.LP
The Power Management framework model allows the system to be viewed as a
collection of devices. Each device is a collection of components that comprise
the smallest power manageable units. The device driver controls the definition
of a device's power manageable components.
.sp
.LP
A component can either be \fBbusy\fR or \fBidle\fR at the current power level.
Normally, the Power Management framework takes an \fBidle\fR component to the
next lower power level. The Power Management framework uses two factors to
determine this transition: the component must have been idle for at least the
threshold time, and the device to which the component belongs must satisfy any
dependency requirements. A dependency occurs when a device requires another
device to be power managed before it can be power managed. Dependencies occur
on a per device basis: when a dependency exists, no components of a device may
be managed unless all the devices it depends upon are first power managed.
.sp
.LP
Using the commands below, an application may take control of the Power
Management of a device from the Power Management framework driver and manage
the transition of device power levels directly.
.sp
.LP
For this set of ioctl commands, \fIarg\fR (see \fBioctl\fR(2)) points to a
structure of type \fBpm_req\fR defined in <\fBsys/pm.h\fR>:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct pm_req {
         char *physpath;     /* physical path of device  */
                             /* to configure. See libdevinfo(3LIB) */
         int  component;     /* device component   */
         int  value;         /* power level, threshold value, or count */
         void *data;         /* command-dependent variable-sized data */
         size_t  datasize;   /* size of data buffer */
     } pm_req_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields should contain the following data:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIphyspath\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to the physical path of a device. See \fBlibdevinfo\fR(3LIB). For
example, for the device \fB/devices/pseudo/pm@0:pm\fR the \fIphyspath\fR value
would be \fB/pseudo/pm@0\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcomponent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Non-negative integer specifying which component is being configured. The
numbering starts at zero.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Non-negative integer specifying the threshold value in seconds or the desired
power level, or the number of levels being specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdata\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a buffer which contains or receives variable-sized data, such as the
name of a device upon which this device has a dependency.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsize\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Size of the data buffer.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Not all fields are used in each command.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_DIRECT_PM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device named by \fIphyspath\fR is disabled from being power managed by the
framework. The caller will power manage the device directly using the
\fBPM_DIRECT_NOTIFY\fR, \fBPM_GET_TIME_IDLE\fR and \fBPM_GET_CURRENT_POWER\fR,
\fBPM_GET_FULL_POWER\fR and \fBPM_SET_CURRENT_POWER\fR commands. If the device
needs to have its power level changed either because its driver calls
\fBpm_raise_power\fR(9F), \fBpm_lower_power\fR(9F), or
\fBpm_power_has_changed\fR(9F) or because the device is the parent of another
device that is changing power level or a device that this device depends on is
changing power level, then the power level change of the device will be blocked
and the caller will be notified as described below for the
\fBPM_DIRECT_NOTIFY\fR command.
.sp
Error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Device already disabled for Power Management by framework.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Caller is neither superuser nor effective group ID of 0.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_RELEASE_DIRECT_PM\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device named by \fIphyspath\fR (which must have been the target of a
\fBPM_DIRECT_PM\fR command) is re-enabled for Power Management by the
framework.
.sp
Error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Device component out of range.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_DIRECT_NOTIFY \fR\fBPM_DIRECT_NOTIFY_WAIT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
These commands allow the process that is directly power managing a device to be
notified of events that could change the power level of the device. When such
an event occurs, this command returns information about the event.
.sp
 \fIarg\fR (see \fBioctl\fR(2)) points to a structure of type
\fBpm_state_change\fR defined in \fB<sys/pm.h>\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct  pm_state_change {
   char   *physpath;    /* device which has changed state */
   int     component;   /* which component changed state */
#if defined(_BIG_ENDIAN)
	ushort_t flags;      /* PSC_EVENT_LOST, PSC_ALL_LOWEST */
	ushort_t event;      /* type of event */
#else
	ushort_t event;      /* type of event *
	ushort_t flags;      /* PSC_EVENT_LOST, PSC_ALL_LOWEST */
#endif
	time_t  timestamp;   /* time of state change */+
	int     old_level;    /* power level changing from */
	int    new_level;   /* power level changing to */
	size_t  size;        /* size of buffer physpath points to */
} pm_state_change_t;
.fi
.in -2

When an event occurs, the struct pointed to by \fIarg\fR is filled in. If the
event type is \fBPSC_PENDING_CHANGE\fR, then the information in the rest of the
struct describes an action that the framework would have taken if the device
were not directly power managed by the caller. The caller is responsible for
completing the indicated level changes using \fBPM_SET_CURRENT_POWER\fR below.
.sp
An event type of \fBPSC_HAS_CHANGED\fR indicates that the driver for the
directly power managed device has called \fBpm_power_has_changed\fR(9F) due to
the device changing power on its own. It is provided to allow the caller to
track the power state of the device.
.sp
The system keeps events in a circular buffer. If the buffer overflow, the
oldest events are lost and when the event that next follows a lost event is
retrieved it will have PSC_EVENT_LOST set in flags.
.sp
\fBPM_DIRECT_NOTIFY\fR returns \fBEWOULDBLOCK\fR if no event is pending, and
\fBPM_DIRECT_NOTIFY_WAIT\fR blocks until an event is available.
.sp
\fBpm\fR also supports the \fBpoll\fR(2) interface. When an event is pending a
\fBpoll\fR(2) call that includes a file descriptor for \fB/dev/pm\fR and that
has \fBPOLLIN \fR or \fBPOLLRDNORM \fR set in its event mask will return.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_SET_CURRENT_POWER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Component \fIcomponent\fR of the device named by \fIphyspath\fR (which must
contain the physical path of a device against which the process has issued a
\fBPM_DIRECT_PM\fR command) is set to power level \fIvalue. \fRIf all
components of the device named by \fIphyspath\fR were at level 0, \fIvalue\fR
is non-zero and some device has a dependency on this device, then all
components of that device will be brought to full power before this command
returns. Similarly, if the parent of the target device is powered off, then it
will be brought up as needed before this command returns. When
PM_SET_CURRENT_POWER is issued against a device, the resulting power change is
included in the event list for PM_DIRECT_NOTIFY.
.sp
Error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Device component out of range, or power level < 0.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Failed to power device or its ancestors or the devices on which this device has
dependency or their ancestors. Note that this may not indicate a failure, the
device driver may have rejected the command as inappropriate because the
component has become busy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Caller has not previously issued a successful \fBPM_DIRECT_PM\fR command
against this device.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_GET_FULL_POWER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The highest supported power level of component \fIcomponent\fR of the device
named by \fIphyspath\fR is returned.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_GET_CURRENT_POWER\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The current power level of component \fIcomponent\fR of the device named by
\fIphyspath\fR is returned.
.sp
Error codes:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAGAIN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Device component power level is not currently known.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPM_GET_TIME_IDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fBPM_GET_TIME_IDLE\fR returns the number of seconds that component
\fIcomponent\fR of the device named by \fIphyspath\fR has been idle. If the
device is not idle, then \fB0\fR is returned.
.sp
Note that because the state of the device may change between the time the
process issues the \fBPM_GET_TIME_IDLE\fR command and the time the process
issues a \fBPM_SET_CURRENT_POWER\fR command to reduce the power level of an
idle component, the process must be prepared to deal with a
\fBPM_SET_CURRENT_POWER\fR command returning failure because the driver has
rejected the command as inappropriate because the device component has become
busy. This can be differentiated from other types of failures by issuing the
\fBPM_GET_TIME_IDLE\fR command again to see if the component has become busy.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
Upon error, the commands will return \fB\(mi1\fR, and set \fIerrno\fR. In
addition to the error codes listed above by command, the following error codes
are common to all commands:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
 Bad address passed in as argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENODEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
 Device is not power manageable, or device is not configured.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
 Too many opens attempted.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface stability	Unstable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpmconfig\fR(1M), \fBIntro\fR(2), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBlibdevinfo\fR(3LIB),
\fBpower.conf\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBattach\fR(9E), \fBdetach\fR(9E),
\fBpower\fR(9E), \fBpm_busy_component\fR(9F), \fBpm_idle_component\fR(9F),
\fBpm_lower_power\fR(9F), \fBpm_power_has_changed\fR(9F),
\fBpm_raise_power\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
