.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014 QLogic Corporation. All Rights Reserved
.\"
.Dd August 28, 2017
.Dt QEDE 7D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm qede
.Nd QLogic FastLinQ QL45xxx 10/25/40/50/100 Gigabit Ethernet Driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa /dev/net/qede*
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded, loadable, clonable, GLDv3-based
driver supporting the Data Link Provider Interface,
.Xr dlpi 7P ,
over QLogic FastLinQ QL45xxx 10/25/40/50/100 Gigabit Ethernet
controllers.
Multiple QLogic FastLinQ controllers installed within the system are
supported by the driver.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the QLogic QL45xxx line of devices.
Functions include chip initialization, frame transmit and receive,
multicast and promiscuous support, error recovery and reporting.
These devices provide 10000/25000/40000/50000/100000 Mbps networking
interfaces.
.Sh DRIVER CONFIGURATION
The primary methods of configuration are via modification of the
.Pa /kernel/drv/qede.conf
file or execution of the
.Xr dladm 1M
utility.
There are many configuration items available and all are thoroughly
documented in the
.Pa /kernel/drv/qede.conf
file.
Note that for changes to this file to take affect the driver must be
reloaded or the system rebooted.
In order to reload the driver with new configuration changes all
.Nm qede
interfaces must be first unplumbed and then the
.Xr update_drv 1M
tool must be executed.
For the configuration items that do not require a driver reload the
.Xr dladm 1M
tool can be used to dynamically change the option.
Use of
.Xr dladm 1M
is the preferred method.
.Sh DEBUGGING
.Ss kstat
There are many statistics exposed via
.Xr kstat 1M
by the
.Nm
driver.
The main groups are:
.Bl -tag -width Em
.It Em intr
for interrupts stats
.It Em l2chip
for layer 2 chip stats
.It Em l2driver
for layer 2 driver stats
.It Em l2stats
for general layer 2 stats
.It Em link
for detailed link status
.It Em mac
for GLDv3 MAC layer stats
.It Em rxq#
for Rx ring stats
.It Em txq#
for Tx ring stats
.It Em stats
for general driver stats and version info.
.El
.Pp
To get a list of all the individual statistics in these goups run:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
# kstat -m qede -i 0 -l
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dladm 1M ,
.Xr ifconfig 1M ,
.Xr driver.conf 4 ,
.Xr dlpi 7P
