'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH QLC 7D "Feb 21, 2005"
.SH NAME
qlc \- ISP2200, ISP2300, and SP212 Family Fibre Channel host bus adapter
driver.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
SUNW,qlc
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBqlc\fR host bus adapter driver is a Sun Fibre Channel transport
layer-compliant  nexus driver for the Qlogic ISP2200, ISP2200A,  ISP2310,
ISP2312, and SP212 adapters. These adapters support  Fibre Channel SCSI and  IP
Protocols, FC-AL public loop profile, point-to-point fabric connection and
Fibre  Channel service classes two and three (see NOTES section below).
.sp
.LP
The \fBqlc\fR driver interfaces with the Sun Fibre Channel transport  layer to
support the standard functions provided by the SCSA interface. It  supports
auto request sense and tagged  queueing by default. The driver requires that
all devices have unique hard addresses in private loop configurations. Devices
with conflicting hard addresses are not accessible.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/qlc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/qlc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/qlc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit ELF kernel module (SPARC)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/qlc.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
 Driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC, x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprtconf\fR(1M), \fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBfcp\fR(7D), \fBfp\fR(7d)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI X3.230:1994, Fibre Channel Physical Signaling (FC-PH)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIProject 1134-D, Fibre Channel Generic Services (FC-GS-2)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI X3.269-1996, Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI X3.270-1996, Fibre Channel Protocol for  SCSI (FCP-SCSI)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI X3.270-1996, SCSI-3 Architecture Model (SAM)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel Private Loop SCSI Direct  Attach  (FC-PLDA)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFabric Loop Attachment (FC-FLA)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIISP2200 Firmware Interface Specification, QLogic Corporation\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIISP2300 Series Firmware Specification, QLogic Corporation\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
 SP-212-based host bus adapters (including QLA-210) are supported on x86
platforms only and are limited to a maximum of 8  targets in fabric and sixteen
targets in local loop topology. FL topology is not supported with the
SP-212-based host bus adapter.
