'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RGE 7D "Dec 21, 2007"
.SH NAME
rge \- Realtek Gigabit/Fast Ethernet Network Adapter driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/dev/rge
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrge\fR Gigabit/Fast Ethernet driver is a multi-threaded,  loadable,
clonable,  GLD-based  STREAMS  driver supporting  the Data Link Provider
Interface, \fBdlpi\fR(7P), on  the Realtek Gigabit/Fast Ethernet Network
Adapter.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrge\fR driver functions includes controller initialization, frame
transmit and receive, promiscuous and multicast support, and error recovery and
reporting.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
The cloning,  character-special device \fB/dev/rge\fR is  used to access all
Realtek Gigabit/Fast Ethernet devices installed within the system.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrge\fR driver is managed by the \fBdladm\fR(1M) command line utility,
which allows VLANs to be defined on top of \fBrge\fR  instances and for
\fBrge\fR instances to be aggregated. See \fBdladm\fR(1M) for more details.
.sp
.LP
The values returned by the driver in the DL_INFO_ACK primitive in response to
the DL_INFO_REQ are as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Maximum SDU (with jumbo frame) is \fB7000\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Minimum SDU is \fB0\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBDSLAP\fR address length is \fB8\fR bytes.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBMAC\fR type is \fBDL_ETHER.\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBSAP\fR length value is  -2, meaning the physical address component is
followed immediately by a 2-byte sap component within the DLSAP address.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Broadcast address value is Ethernet/IEEE  broadcast address
(FF:FF:FF:FF:FF:FF).
.RE
.sp
.LP
Once in the DL_ATTACHED state, you must send a DL_BIND_REQ to associate a
particular Service Access Point (SAP) with the stream.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
By default, the \fBrge\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to select the link
speed and mode. Link speed and mode can be any one of the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
1000 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
100 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
100 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
10 Mbps, full-duplex
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
10 Mbps, half-duplex
.RE
.sp
.LP
Alternatively, you can set the capabilities advertised by the \fBrge\fR device
using \fBndd\fR(1M). The driver supports a number of parameters whose names
begin with \fBadv_\fR. Each of these parameters contains a boolean value that
determines if the device advertises that mode of operation. The
\fIadv_pause_cap\fR indicates if half/full duplex pause is advertised to link
partner. You can set \fIadv_asym_pause_cap\fR to advertise to the link partner
that asymmetric pause is desired.
.sp
.LP
For example, to prevent the device 'rge2' from advertising gigabit
capabilities, enter (as super-user):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ndd -set /dev/rge2 adv_1000fdx_cap 0
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
All capabilities default to enabled. Note that changing any capability
parameter causes the link to go down while the link partners renegotiate the
link speed/duplex using the newly changed capabilities.
.sp
.LP
You can find the current parameter settings by using \fBndd\fR \fB-get\fR. In
addition, the driver exports the current state, speed, duplex setting, and
working mode of the link via \fBndd\fR parameters (these are read only and may
not be changed). For example, to check link state of device \fBrge0\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# ndd -get /dev/rge0 link_status
1
# ndd -get /dev/rge0 link_speed
100
# ndd -get /dev/rge0 link_duplex
2
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The output above indicates that the link is up and running at 100Mbps
full-duplex. In addition, the driver exports its working mode by
\fIloop_mode\fR. If it is set to 0, the loopback mode is disabled.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/rge*\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Character special device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/rge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
32-bit x86 \fBrge\fR driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/rge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
64-bit x86 \fBrge\fR driver binary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/rge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
SPARC \fBrge\fR driver binary.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC, x86
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstreamio\fR(7I), \fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
\fINetwork Interfaces Programmer's Guide\fR
