'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RWD 7D "Jun 18, 2009"
.SH NAME
rwd \- Ralink RT2561/RT2561S/RT2661 IEEE802.11b/g wireless network driver
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The rwd IEEE802.11b/g wireless network driver is a multithreaded, loadable,
clonable, GLDv3-based STREAMS driver supporting Ralink RT2561/RT2561S/RT2661
IEEE802.11b/g wireless network driver.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
The \fBrwd\fR driver performs auto-negotiation to determine the data rate and
mode. The driver supports only BSS networks (also known as "ap" or
"infrastructure" networks) and "open"(or "open-system") or "shared system"
authentication. For wireless security,  WEP encryption, WPA-PSk, and WPA2-PSK
are currently supported. You can perform configuration and administration tasks
using the \fBdladm\fR(1M)and \fBwificonfig\fR(1M) utilities.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/rwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Special character device
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/rwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
32-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/rwd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
64-bit ELF kernel module (x86)
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	x86
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdladm\fR(1M), \fBwificonfig\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBgld\fR(7D),
\fBdlpi\fR(7P)
.sp
.LP
IEEE802.11b/g - Wireless LAN Standard - IEEE, 2003
