'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SDT 7D "Sep 4, 2003"
.SH NAME
sdt \- DTrace statically defined tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsdt\fR driver is a DTrace dynamic tracing provider that performs dynamic
instrumentation at statically-defined locations in the Solaris kernel.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsdt\fR provider allows kernel developers to explicitly create probes at
formally designated locations in the operating system kernel and loadable
modules, allowing the implementor to consciously choose the points in their
code that are desired probe points, and to convey some semantic knowledge about
that point with the choice of probe name and a relevant set of arguments.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsdt\fR driver is not a public interface and you access instrumentation
offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the \fISolaris Dynamic
Tracing Guide\fR for a description of the public documented interfaces
available for the DTrace facility and the probes offered by the \fBsdt\fR
provider.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability 	Private
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdtrace\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdtrace\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fISolaris Dynamic Tracing Guide\fR
