'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 20081 Sun Microsystems. Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SES 7D "May 27, 2008"
.SH NAME
ses \- SCSI enclosure services device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBses\fR\fI@target\fR\fB,\fR\fIlun\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBses\fR device driver is an interface to \fBSCSI\fR enclosure services
devices. These devices sense and monitor the physical conditions in an
enclosure as well as allow access to the status reporting and configuration
features of the enclosure (such as indicator \fBLEDs\fR on the enclosure.)
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl\fR(9E) calls may be issued to \fBses\fR to determine the state of the
enclosure and to set parameters on the enclosure services device.
.sp
.LP
No \fBses\fR driver properties are defined. Use the \fBses.conf\fR file to
configure the \fBses\fR driver.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR\fBses.conf\fR File Format
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of the \fBses.conf\fR file format:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# Copyright (c) 1996, by Sun Microsystems, Inc.
# All rights reserved.
#
#
#ident "@(#)ses.conf 1.1    97/02/10 SMI"
#

name="ses" parent="sf"
      target=15;

name="ses" parent="SUNW,pln" port=0 target=15;
name="ses" parent="SUNW,pln" port=1 target=15;
name="ses" parent="SUNW,pln" port=2 target=15;
name="ses" parent="SUNW,pln" port=3 target=15;
name="ses" parent="SUNW,pln" port=4 target=15;
name="ses" parent="SUNW,pln" port=5 target=15;

name="ses" class="scsi"
      target=15 lun=0;
.fi
.in -2

.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
The SES driver currently supports the SES, SAFTE and SEN enclosure service
chipsets. SEN and SAFTE protocols are translated internally in the driver into
SES compliant data structures. This enables the SES driver to work seamlessly
with  different protocols and eliminates the need to enhance user applications.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSESIOC_GETNOBJ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Returns an unsigned integer that represents the number of SES data structures
in the enclosure services chip.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSESIOC_GETOBJMAP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Returns a size array containing \fBses_object\fR elements communicated through
\fBSESIOC_GETNOBJ()\fR. \fBses_object\fR is defined in \fBsesio.h\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSESIOC_INIT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Instructs the device to perform a self-diagnostic test. Currently SES & SEN
devices always return success.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSESIOC_GETENCSTAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Returns an unsigned character that represents status enclosure as defined by
Table 25 in Section 7.1.2 of the SES specification \fINCITS 305-199\fR\fIx\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSESIOC_GETOBJSTAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This ioctl is passed an \fBses_objarg\fR containing the \fBobj_id\fR you want
to set, then fills in the remaining fields according to element status page of
the SES specification.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSESIOC_SETOBJSTAT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Sets options in the control field. You set control field options by filling out
all fields in \fBses_objarg\fR. Field definitions are presented in Section
7.2.2 of the SES specification.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/ses.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
Driver configuration file
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBscsi\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBesp\fR(7D),
\fBisp\fR(7D), \fBioctl\fR(9E)
