'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SMBIOS 7D "Aug 26, 2005"
.SH NAME
smbios \- System Management BIOS image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/dev/smbios\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsmbios\fR device is a character special file that provides access to a
snapshot of the System Management BIOS (\fBSMBIOS\fR) image exported by the
current system. \fBSMBIOS\fR is an industry-standard mechanism that enables
low-level system software to export hardware configuration information to
higher-level system management software. The \fBSMBIOS\fR data format is
defined by the Distributed Management Task Force (\fBDMTF\fR). For more
information on \fBSMBIOS\fR and to obtain a copy of the \fBSMBIOS\fR
specification and implementation guidelines, refer to
http://\fIwww.dmtf.org\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBSMBIOS\fR image consists of a table of structures, each describing some
aspect of the system software or hardware configuration. The content of the
image varies widely by platform and BIOS vendor and may not exist on some
systems. You can use the \fBsmbios\fR(1M) utility to inspect the contents of
the \fBSMBIOS\fR image and copy it to a file.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Stable
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBprtdiag\fR(1M), \fBsmbios\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Management BIOS Reference Specification\fR, Version 2, Release 4 \(em
2005
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The implementation of a System Management BIOS image is entirely at the
discretion of the system and BIOS vendors. Not all systems export a
\fBSMBIOS\fR. The \fBSMBIOS\fR structure content varies widely between systems
and BIOS vendors and frequently does not comply with the guidelines included in
the specification. For example, some structure fields may not be filled in by
the BIOS, while others may be filled in with non-conforming values.
