'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SSD 7D "Aug 9, 2008"
.SH NAME
ssd \- Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop disk device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBssd@\fR\fIport\fR\fB,\fR\fItarget\fR\fB:\fR\fIpartition\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
 The \fBssd\fR driver supports Fibre Channel disk devices.
.sp
.LP
The specific type of each disk is determined by the \fBSCSI\fR inquiry command
and reading the volume label stored on block 0 of the drive. The volume label
describes the disk geometry and partitioning; it must be present or the disk
cannot be mounted by the system.
.sp
.LP
The block-files access the disk using the system's normal buffering mechanism
and are read and written without regard to physical disk records. A "raw"
interface provides for direct transmission between the disk and the read or
write buffer. A single read or write call usually results in one I/O operation;
raw I/O is therefore more efficient when many bytes are transmitted. Block file
names are found in \fB/dev/dsk\fR; the names of the raw files are found in
\fB/dev/rdsk\fR.
.sp
.LP
I/O requests (such as \fBlseek\fR(2)) to the \fBSCSI\fR disk must have an
offset that is a multiple of 512 bytes (\fBDEV_BSIZE\fR), or the driver returns
an \fBEINVAL\fR error. If the transfer length is not a multiple of 512 bytes,
the transfer count is rounded up by the driver.
.sp
.LP
Partition 0 is normally used for the root file system on a disk, with partition
1 as a paging area (for example, \fBswap\fR). Partition 2 is used to back up
the entire disk. Partition 2 normally maps the entire disk and may also be used
as the mount point for secondary disks in the system. The rest of the disk is
normally partition 6. For the primary disk, the user file system is located
here.
.sp
.LP
The device has associated error statistics. These must include counters for
hard errors, soft errors and transport errors. Other data may be implemented as
required.
.SH DEVICE STATISTICS SUPPORT
.sp
.LP
The device maintains I/O statistics for the device and for partitions allocated
for that device. For each device/partition, the  driver accumulates reads,
writes, bytes read, and bytes written. The driver also initiates hi-resolution
time stamps at queue entry and exit points to enable monitoring of residence
time and cumulative residence-length product for each queue.
.sp
.LP
Not all device drivers make per-partition IO statistics available for
reporting. \fBssd\fR and \fBsd\fR(7D) per-partition statistics are  enabled by
default but may be disabled in their configuration files.
.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
Refer to  \fBdkio\fR(7I).
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Permission denied.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The partition was opened exclusively by another thread.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The argument was a bad address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Invalid argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
An I/O error occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTTY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The device does not support the requested ioctl function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
When returned during  \fBopen\fR(2), this error indicates the device does not
exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEROFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The device is a read-only device.
.RE

.SH CONFIGURATION
.sp
.LP
You configure the \fBssd\fR driver by defining  properties in the
\fBssd.conf\fR file. The \fBssd\fR driver supports the following properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBenable-partition-kstats\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The default value is 1, which causes partition IO statistics to be maintained.
Set this value to zero to prevent the driver from recording partition
statistics. This slightly reduces the CPU overhead for IO, mimimizes the amount
of \fBsar\fR(1) data collected and makes these statistics unavailable for
reporting by \fBiostat\fR(1M) even though the \fB-p\fR/\fB-P\fR option is
specified.  Regardless of this setting, disk IO statistics are always
maintained.
.RE

.sp
.LP
In addition to the above properties, some device-specific tunables can be
configured in \fBssd.conf\fR using the 'ssd-config-list' global property. The
value of this property is a list of duplets. The formal syntax is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ssd-config-list = 	<duplet> [, <duplet> ]* ;

where

<duplet>:=        "<vid+pid>" , "<tunable-list>"

and

<tunable-list>:=   <tunable>  [, <tunable> ]*;
<tunable> =        <name> : <value>

The <vid+pid> is the string that is returned by the target device
on a SCSI inquiry command.

The <tunable-list> contains one or more tunables to apply to
all target devices with the specified <vid+pid>.

Each <tunable> is a <name> : <value> pair. Supported
tunable names are:

   delay-busy:	when busy, nsecs of delay before retry.

   retries-timeout:	retries to perform on an IO timeout.
.fi
.in -2

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.in +2
.nf
The following is an example of a global ssd-config-list property:

   ssd-config-list =
      "SUN     T4", "delay-busy:600, retries-timeout:6",
      "SUN     StorEdge_3510", "retries-timeout:3";
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBssd.conf\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Driver configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB/dev/dsk/c\fIn\fR\fBt\fR\fIn\fR\fBd\fR\fIn\fR\fBs\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
block files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB/dev/rdsk/c\fIn\fR\fBt\fR\fIn\fR\fBd\fR\fIn\fR\fBs\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
raw files
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBc\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
is the controller number on the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBt\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
7-bit disk loop identifier, such as switch setting
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBd\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
SCSI lun  \fIn\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBs\fR\fIn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
partition \fIn\fR (0-7)
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsar\fR(1), \fBformat\fR(1M), \fBiostat\fR(1M), \fBioctl\fR(2),
\fBlseek\fR(2), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBread\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2),
\fBscsi\fR(4), \fBdriver.conf\fR(4), \fBcdio\fR(7I), \fBdkio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI X3.272-1996, Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIFibre Channel - Private Loop SCSI Direct Attach (FC-PLDA)\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Error for command '<command name>' Error Level: Fatal Requested Block <n>,
Error  Block: <m>, Sense Key: <sense key name>, Vendor '<vendor name>':
ASC = 0x<a> (<ASC name>), ASCQ = 0x<b>, FRU = 0x<c>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The command indicated by <command name> failed. The Requested Block is the
block where the transfer started and the Error Block is the block that caused
the error. Sense Key, ASC, and ASCQ information is returned by the target in
response to a request sense command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Check Condition on REQUEST SENSE
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A REQUEST SENSE command completed with a check condition. The original command
will be retried a number of times.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Label says <m> blocks Drive says <\fIn\fR> blocks
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
There is a discrepancy between the label and what the drive returned on the
READ CAPACITY command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Not enough sense information
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The request sense data was less than expected.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Request Sense couldn't get sense data
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The REQUEST SENSE command did not transfer any data.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Reservation Conflict
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The drive was reserved by another initiator.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
SCSI transport failed: reason 'xxxx' : {retrying|giving up}
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The host adapter has failed to transport a command to the target for the
reason stated. The driver will either retry the command or, ultimately, give
up.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Unhandled Sense Key <\fIn\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The REQUEST SENSE data included an invalid sense key.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Unit not Ready. Additional sense code 0x<\fIn\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The drive is not ready.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
corrupt label - bad geometry
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The disk label is corrupted.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
corrupt label - label checksum failed
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The disk label is corrupted.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
corrupt label - wrong magic number
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The disk label is corrupted.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
device busy too long
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The drive returned busy during a number of retries.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
disk not responding to selection
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The drive was probably powered down or died.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
i/o to invalid geometry
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The geometry of the drive could not be established.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
incomplete read/write - retrying/giving up
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
There was a residue after the command completed normally.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
logical unit not ready
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The drive is not ready.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
no bp for disk label
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A bp with consistent memory could not be allocated.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
no mem for property
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Free memory pool exhausted.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
no memory for disk label
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Free memory pool exhausted.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
no resources for dumping
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A packet could not be allocated during dumping.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
offline
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Drive went offline; probably powered down.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
requeue of command fails<\fIn\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Driver attempted to retry a command and experienced a transport error.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ssdrestart transport failed <\fIn\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Driver attempted to retry a command and experienced a transport error.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
transfer length not modulo <\fIn\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Illegal request size.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
transport rejected <\fIn\fR>
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Host adapter driver was unable to accept a command.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unable to read label
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Failure to read disk label.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
unit does not respond to selection
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Drive went offline; probably powered down.
