'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SYSTRACE 7D "Dec 10, 2017"
.SH NAME
systrace \- DTrace system call tracing provider
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBsystrace\fR driver implements the DTrace \fBsyscall\fR dynamic tracing
provider. The syscall provider performs dynamic instrumentation to offer probes
that fire whenever a thread enters or returns from a kernel system call entry
point.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsystrace\fR driver is not a public interface and you access the
instrumentation offered by this provider through DTrace. Refer to the
\fIDynamic Tracing Guide\fR for a description of the public documented
interfaces available for the DTrace facility and the probes offered by the
\fBsyscall\fR provider.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Private
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBdtrace\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBdtrace\fR(7D)
.sp
.LP
\fIDynamic Tracing Guide\fR:
.sp
.LP
https://illumos.org/books/dtrace/
