'\" te
.\"  Copyright 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TTYMUX 7D "Apr 9, 2009"
.SH NAME
ttymux \- Serial I/O multiplexing STREAMS device driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
multiplexer@0,0:input
.fi

.LP
.nf
multiplexer@0,0:output
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBttymux\fR is a STREAMS multiplexer driver that connects multiple serial
devices to the system console. Using this driver, input from multiple physical
devices can be multiplexed onto a single input stream for the system console.
Output written to the console can be distributed to multiple physical devices
to provide redundant console interfaces to a system. Input and output can be
multiplexed to or from a separate list of devices.
.sp
.LP
\fBttymux\fR is a STREAMS multiplexer for serial drivers (such as \fBse\fR(7D))
that comply with the Solaris terminal subsystem interface.
.sp
.LP
Currently, multiplexer interfaces are provided for system console I/O only and
not for general serial I/O multiplexing. Multiplexer interfaces are currently
not available for all platforms. Please see NOTES.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/ttymux\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
64- bit ELF kernel module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC (NetraCT series only)
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBse\fR(7D), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Successful loading of this driver and its services depends on the \fBEEPROM\fR
or \fBNVRAM\fR settings in effect at the most recent system reboot. Without the
platform firmware support, this feature cannot be enabled. Currently, this
support is provided only on a NetraCT product family.
.sp
.LP
Use caution when enabling this feature to perform console input multiplexing,
particularly during super-user login. Because no security measures are enabled
when the driver is in operation, you must clearly understand the security
implications involved in using this feature and take appropriate measures to
provide maximum protection to the host. This can include such steps as enabling
input to physically secured console devices only.
.sp
.LP
The \fBttymux\fR driver does not handle the behavioral differences in control
characteristics of different terminal types (for example, an ESCAPE sequence.)
As a result, multiple terminal types are not supported simultaneously. Please
refer to the platform user guide for more information.
