'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH USB_AS 7D "May 15, 2009"
.SH NAME
usb_as \- USB audio streaming driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
sound@unit-address
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_as\fR driver is a USBA (Solaris USB Architecture) compliant client
driver that supports the \fIUSB Audio Class 1.0\fR specification.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusb_as\fR driver processes audio data messages during play and record
and sets sample frequency, precision, encoding and other functions on request
from the USB audio control driver. See \fBusb_ac\fR(7D).
.sp
.LP
This driver is plumbed under the USB audio control driver and does not directly
interface with the user application.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/usb_as\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
32-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/usb_as\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/usb_as\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC, x86, PCI-based systems
_
Stability level 	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBusba\fR(7D), \fBusb_ac\fR(7D), \fBaudio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIUniversal Serial Bus Specification 1.0 and 1.1\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Basic Administration\fR
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages can appear on the system
console. All messages are formatted in the following manner:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Warning: <device path> (usb_as<instance num>): Error Message...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where \fI<device path>\fR is the physical path to the device in \fB/devices\fR
directory.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBNo bandwidth available.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There is no bandwidth available for the isochronous pipe. As a result, no data
is transferred during play and record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBOperating a full/high speed audio device on a high speed port is not
supported.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The USB software does not currently support full or high speed audio devices
connected to an external USB 2.0 hub that is linked to a port of a USB 2.0 host
controller. Audio devices must be connected directly to a port of a USB 2.0
controller or to any USB 1.1 port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCannot access device. Please reconnect <name>.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
There was an error in accessing the device during reconnect. Please reconnect
the device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDevice is not identical to the previous one on this port. Please disconnect
and reconnect.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A USB audio streaming interface was hot-removed while open. A new device was
hot-inserted which is not identical to the original USB audio device. Please
disconnect the USB device and reconnect the device to the same port.
.RE

.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The USB audio streaming interface is power managed if the device is idle.
