'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH USBSACM 7D "Nov 1, 2006"
.SH NAME
usbsacm \- USB communication device class ACM driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/termio.h>

usbsacm@unit
.fi

.LP
.nf

.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBusbsacm\fR driver is a loadable STREAMS and USBA (Solaris USB
architecture)-compliant client driver that provides basic asynchronous
communication support for USB modems and ISDN terminal adapters that conform to
the \fIUniversal Serial Bus Communication Device Class Abstract Control Model
(USB CDC ACM)\fR specification. You can download the \fIUSB CDC\fR
specification from the USB website at
\fIhttp://www.usb.org/developers/devclass_docs/usbcdc11.pdf\fR. Supported
devices include mobile phones and PCMCIA cards which provide modem function by
the usb cable. Serial device streams are built with appropriate modules that
are pushed atop the usbsacm driver by the \fBautopush\fR(1M) facility.
.sp
.LP
The \fBusbsacm\fR module supports the \fBtermio\fR(7I) device control functions
specified by flags in the c_cflag word of termios structure, and by the IGNBRK,
IGNPAR, PARMRK and INPCK flags in the c_iflag word of the termios structure.
All other \fBtermio\fR(7I) functions must be performed by STREAMS modules
pushed atop the driver. When a device is opened, the \fBldterm\fR(7M) and
\fBttcompat\fR(7M) STREAMS modules are automatically pushed on top of the
stream, providing the standard \fBtermio\fR(7I) interface.
.sp
.LP
You use device logical names /dev/term/[\fI0-9\fR]* to access the serial ports.
These names are typically used to provide a logical access point for a dial-in
line that is used with a modem. You can use \fBpppd\fR(1M) to transmit
datagrams over these serial ports.
.sp
.LP
A special feature (controlled by the minor device number) is available that
enables a single tty line to be connected to a modem and used for incoming and
outgoing calls. By accessing through device logical name /dev/cua/[\fI0-9\fR]*,
you can open a port without the carrier detect signal being asserted, either
through hardware or an equivalent software mechanism. These devices are
commonly known  as 'dial-out' lines.
.sp
.LP
Unlike onboard serial ports, the \fBusbsacm\fR ports cannot serve as a local
serial console.
.SH APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE
.sp
.LP
A dial-in line can  be  opened  only  if  the corresponding dial-out  line is
closed. A blocking /dev/term open waits until the /dev/cua line is closed
(which drops Data Terminal Ready, after which Carrier Detect usually drops as
well) and carrier is detected again.  A non-blocking  /dev/term open returns an
error if the /dev/cua is open.
.sp
.LP
If the /dev/term line is opened successfully  (usually  only when  carrier is
recognized on the modem), the corresponding      /dev/cua line cannot be
opened. This allows a modem and port to  be  used  for dial-in (by enabling the
line for login in \fB/etc/inittab\fR) or dial-out (by \fBtip\fR(1) or
\fBuucp\fR(1C)) as \fB/dev/cua0\fR when no one is logged in on the line.
.sp
.LP
Device hot-removal  is functionally equivalent to a modem disconnect event, as
defined in \fBtermio\fR(7I).
.SH IOCTLS
.sp
.LP
The  \fBusbsacm\fR driver supports the standard set of \fBtermio\fR(7I) ioctl
calls.
.sp
.LP
The input and output line speeds may be set to any of the following baud rates:
75, 150, 300, 600, 1200, 1800, 2400, 4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200,
230400 or 460800. The speeds cannot be set independently. For example, when the
output speed is set, the input speed is automatically set to the same speed.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
An \fBopen()\fR fails under the following conditions:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENXIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The unit being opened does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The /dev/cua (dial-out) device is being opened  while the /dev/term (dial-in
device) is open, or the dial-in device is being opened with a no-delay open
while the dial-out device is open.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The unit has been marked as exclusive-use by another process with a
\fBTIOCEXCL\fR \fBioctl()\fR call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEIO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
USB device I/O error.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/usbsacm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF kernel module. (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/usbsacm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit ELF kernel module. (x86)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/usbsacm\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit ELF kernel module. (SPARC)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/cua/[0-9]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
dial-out tty lines
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/dev/term/[0-9]\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
dial-in tty lines
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	 SPARC, x86 PCI-based systems
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstrconf\fR(1), \fBtip\fR(1), \fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBautopush\fR(1M),
\fBpppd\fR(1M), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBopen\fR(2), \fBtermios\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBusba\fR(7D), \fBtermio\fR(7I), \fBldterm\fR(7M),
\fBttcompat\fR(7M)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.sp
.LP
In addition to being logged, the following messages may appear on the system
console. All messages are formatted in the     following manner:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Warning: <device path> (usbsacm<instance num>):Error Message...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDevice was disconnected while open. Data may have been lost.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device has been hot-removed or powered off while it was open and a possible
data transfer was in progress. The job may be aborted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDevice is not identical to the previous one on this port. Please disconnect
and reconnect.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device was hot-removed while open. A new device was hot-inserted which is
not identical to the original device. Please disconnect the device and
reconnect the original device to the same port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBDevice has been reconnected, but data may have been lost.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The device that was hot-removed from its USB port has been re-inserted again
to the same port. It is available for access but data from a previous transfer
may be lost.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCannot access <device>. Please reconnect.\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This device has been disconnected because a device other than the original one
has been inserted. The driver informs you of this fact by displaying the name
of the original device.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following messages may be logged into the system log. They are formatted in
the following manner:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
<device path><usbsacm<instance number>): message...
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBInput overrun.\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Data was lost.
.RE

