'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH WUSB_DF 7D "Sep 18, 2009"
.SH NAME
wusb_df, hwa1480_fw \- WUSB firmware download driver and firmware module for
Intel i1480 chipset
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBwusb_df\fR driver is a Solaris USB Architecture (USBA) compliant client
driver that is used to download firmware for Host Wire Adapter (HWA) dongles
that use Intel i1480 chipsets.
.sp
.LP
Currently, the \fBwusb_df\fR driver can only download driver for Intel i1480
based HWA dongles. The \fBhwa1480_fw\fR is a miscellaneous module which is
transformed from Intel's firmware binary version RC1.3PA2-20070828.
\fBwusb_df\fR reads firmware data from \fBhwa1480_fw\fR module and downloads it
to HWA hardware.
.sp
.LP
Users can use \fBelfwrap\fR(1) to transform new firmware binary. Users must use
the same name as \fBhwa1480_fw\fR, since \fBwusb_df\fR only recognizes this
symbol.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/wusb_df\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF 86 kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/sparcv9/wusb_df\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/wusb_df\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/misc/hwa_1480\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
32-bit ELF 86 kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/misc/sparcv9/hwa_1480\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit SPARC ELF kernel module
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/kernel/drv/amd64/hwa_1480\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
64-bit x86 ELF kernel module
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
l | l
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	SPARC, x86, PCI-based systems
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBelfwrap\fR(1)\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBrem_drv\fR(1M), \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Basic Administration\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIWireless Universal Serial Bus Specification 1.0\fR
.sp
.LP
http://www.usb.org
.sp
.LP
http://www.sun.com
