.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd October 17, 2016
.Dt XHCI 7D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xhci
.Nd Extensible Host Controller Interface Driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sy usb@unit-address
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports PCI devices that implement versions 1.0 and 1.1 of the
Extensible Host Controller Inteface Specification.
These devices provide support for USB 3.0, USB 2.x, and USB 1.x devices and is
integrated into the broader illumos USB Architecture (USBA).
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver supports all four USB transfer types:
.Sy bulk transfers ,
.Sy control transfers ,
.Sy interrupt transfers ,
and
.Sy isochronous transfers .
.Pp
Administrators do not interact with the
.Nm
driver directly.
USB devices are managed with
.Xr cfgadm 1M .
See
.Xr cfgadm_usb 1M
for more information on how to specifically manage USB devices and how
they are laid out in the system.
.Xr cfgadm 1M
is only used to manage devices at a USB level.
For example, a USB NIC would still be managed with
.Xr dladm 1M
at a networking level.
.Pp
On some x86 systems USB ports may be routed to either an instance of the
.Nm
driver or an instance of the
.Xr ehci 7D
driver.
By default, all such ports are routed to the
.Nm
driver, allowing those devices to operate at USB 3.x speed by default.
This is most common on Intel platforms and chipsets.
While this is controlled with the
.Sy xhci-reroute
property discussed below, changing it may not be sufficient to change
the behavior.
The BIOS or ACPI data for many x86 systems may toggle this automatically.
.Sh PROPERTIES
The
.Nm
driver supports the following properties which may be tuned in the
.Nm
driver's
.Xr driver.conf 4
file.
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy xhci-reroute
The
.Sy xhci-reroute
property determines whether or not USB ports are re-routed to the
.Nm
driver.
The default behavior is to route such ports.
To disable this, the property should be set to
.Sy 0 .
Any other value, or the lack of the property, cause the default behavior
to take place.
.El
.Sh ARCHITECTURE
The
.Nm
driver is only supported on
.Sy x86
systems at this time.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /kernel/drv/xhci
32-bit device driver (x86).
.It Pa /kernel/drv/amd64/xhci
64-bit device driver (x86).
.It Pa /kernel/drv/xhci.conf
Driver configuration file.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cfgadm 1M ,
.Xr cfgadm_usb 1M ,
.Xr dladm 1M ,
.Xr driver.conf 4 ,
.Xr ehci 7D ,
.Xr usba 7D
