'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CLDAP_SETRETRYINFO 3LDAP "Jan 27, 2002"
.SH NAME
cldap_setretryinfo \- set connectionless LDAP request retransmission parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBcldap_setretryinfo\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBint\fR \fItries\fR, \fBint\fR \fItimeout\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIld\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
LDAP pointer returned from a previous call to \fBcldap_open\fR(3LDAP).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItries\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Maximum number of times to send a request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItimeout\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Initial time, in seconds, to wait  before re-sending a request.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcldap_setretryinfo()\fR function is used to set the CLDAP request
retransmission behavior for future \fBcldap_search_s\fR(3LDAP) calls. The
default values (set by \fBcldap_open\fR(3LDAP)) are 4 tries and 3 seconds
between tries.  See \fBcldap_search_s\fR(3LDAP) for a complete description of
the retransmission algorithm used.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBcldap_open\fR(3LDAP), \fBcldap_search_s\fR(3LDAP),
\fBcldap_close\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
