'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CLDAP_OPEN 3LDAP "Jan 27, 2002"
.SH NAME
cldap_open \- LDAP connectionless communication preparation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBLDAP *\fR\fBcldap_open\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI*host\fR, \fBint\fR \fIport\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhost\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The name of the host on which the LDAP server is running.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The port number to connect.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcldap_open()\fR function is called to prepare for connectionless LDAP
communication (over \fBudp\fR(7P)). It allocates an LDAP structure which is
passed to future search requests.
.sp
.LP
If the default IANA-assigned port of 389 is desired,  \fBLDAP_PORT\fR should be
specified for \fIport\fR. \fIhost\fR can contain a space-separated list of
hosts or addresses to try. \fBcldap_open()\fR returns a pointer to an LDAP
structure, which should be passed to subsequent calls to
\fBcldap_search_s\fR(3LDAP), \fBcldap_setretryinfo\fR(3LDAP), and
\fBcldap_close\fR(3LDAP). Certain fields in the LDAP structure can be set to
indicate size limit, time limit, and how aliases are handled during operations.
See \fBldap_open\fR(3LDAP) and  \fB<ldap.h>\fR for more details.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
If an error occurs, \fBcldap_open()\fR will return  \fINULL\fR and  \fBerrno\fR
will be set appropriately.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP) \fBcldap_search_s\fR(3LDAP), \fBcldap_setretryinfo\fR(3LDAP),
\fBcldap_close\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBudp\fR(7P)
