'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LDAP_ENTRY2TEXT 3LDAP "Jan 27, 2002"
.SH NAME
ldap_entry2text, ldap_entry2text_search, ldap_entry2html,
ldap_entry2html_search, ldap_vals2html, ldap_vals2text \- LDAP entry display
functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_entry2text\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*buf\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR,
     \fBstruct ldap_disptmpl\fR \fI*tmpl\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**defattrs\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI***defvals\fR,
     \fBint (\fR\fI*writeproc\fR)(), \fBvoid\fR \fI*writeparm\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*eol\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrdncount\fR,
     \fBunsigned long\fR \fIopts\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_entry2text_search\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*base\fR,
     \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR, \fBstruct ldap_disptmpl\fR \fI*tmpllist\fR,
     \fBchar\fR \fI**defattrs\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI***defvals\fR, \fBint (\fR\fI*writeproc\fR)(),
     \fBvoid\fR \fI*writeparm\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*eol\fR,\fBint\fR \fIrdncount\fR,
     \fBunsigned long\fR \fIopts\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_vals2text\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*buf\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**vals\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*label\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIlabelwidth\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR\fIsyntaxid\fR, \fBint (\fR\fI*writeproc\fR)(),
     \fBvoid\fR \fI*writeparm\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*eol\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrdncount\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_entry2html\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*buf\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR,
     \fBstruct ldap_disptmpl\fR \fI*tmpl\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**defattrs\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI***defvals\fR,
     \fBint (\fR\fI*writeproc\fR)(),\fBvoid\fR \fI*writeparm\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*eol\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrdncount\fR,
     \fBunsigned long\fR \fIopts\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*urlprefix\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*base\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_entry2html_search\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*dn\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR,
     \fBstruct ldap_disptmpl\fR \fI*tmpllist\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**defattrs\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI***defvals\fR,
     \fBint (\fR\fI*writeproc\fR)(), \fBvoid\fR \fI*writeparm\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*eol\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrdncount\fR,
     \fBunsigned long\fR \fIopts\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*urlprefix\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_vals2html\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*buf\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**vals\fR,
     \fBchar\fR \fI*label\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlabelwidth\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fIsyntaxid\fR,
     \fBint (\fR\fI*writeproc\fR)(), \fBvoid\fR \fI*writeparm\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*eol\fR, \fBint\fR \fIrdncount\fR,
     \fBchar\fR \fI*urlprefix\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
#define LDAP_DISP_OPT_AUTOLABELWIDTH 0x00000001
.fi

.LP
.nf
#define LDAP_DISP_OPT_HTMLBODYONLY      0x00000002
.fi

.LP
.nf
#define LDAP_DTMPL_BUFSIZ  2048
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions use the LDAP display template functions (see
\fBldap_disptmpl\fR(3LDAP) and  \fBldap_templates.conf(4))\fR to produce a
plain text or an HyperText Markup Language (HTML) display of an entry or a set
of values.  Typical plain text output produced for an entry might look like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    "Barbara J Jensen, Information Technology Division"
     Also Known As:
     Babs Jensen
     Barbara Jensen
     Barbara J Jensen
     E-Mail Address:
     bjensen@terminator.rs.itd.umich.edu
     Work Address:
     535 W. William
     Ann Arbor, MI 48103
     Title:
     Mythical Manager, Research Systems
     ...
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The exact output produced will depend on the display template configuration.
HTML output is similar to the plain text output, but more richly formatted.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_entry2text()\fR produces a text representation of \fIentry\fR and
writes the text by calling the \fIwriteproc\fR function.  All of the attributes
values to be displayed must be present in \fIentry;\fR no interaction with the
LDAP server will be performed within \fBldap_entry2text\fR. \fBld\fR is the
LDAP pointer obtained by a previous call to \fBldap_open.\fR \fIwriteproc\fR
should be declared as:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int writeproc( writeparm, p, len )
 void  *writeparm;
 char  *p;
 int  len;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fIp\fR is a pointer to text to be written and \fIlen\fR is the length of
the text. \fIp\fR is guaranteed to be zero-terminated.  Lines of text are
terminated with the string \fIeol.\fR \fIbuf\fR is a pointer to a buffer of
size \fBLDAP_DTMPL_BUFSIZ\fR or larger.  If \fIbuf\fR \fIis\fR \fINULL\fR then
a buffer is allocated and freed internally. \fItmpl\fR is a pointer to the
display template to be used (usually obtained by calling
\fBldap_oc2template\fR). If \fItmpl\fR is \fINULL\fR, no template is used and a
generic display is produced. \fIdefattrs\fR is a NULL-terminated array of LDAP
attribute names which you wish to provide default values for (only used if
\fIentry\fR contains no values for the attribute).  An array of NULL-terminated
arrays of default values corresponding to the attributes should be passed in
\fIdefvals.\fR \fIThe\fR \fIrdncount\fR parameter is used to limit the number
of Distinguished Name (DN) components that are actually displayed for DN
attributes.  If \fIrdncount\fR is zero, all components are shown. \fIopts\fR is
used to specify output options.  The only values currently allowed are zero
(default output), \fBLDAP_DISP_OPT_AUTOLABELWIDTH\fR which causes the width for
labels to be determined based on the longest label in \fItmpl,\fR \fIand\fR
\fBLDAP_DISP_OPT_HTMLBODYONLY\fR. The \fBLDAP_DISP_OPT_HTMLBODYONLY\fR option
instructs the library not to include <HTML>, <HEAD>, <TITLE>, and <BODY> tags.
In other words, an HTML fragment is generated, and the caller is responsible
for prepending and appending the appropriate HTML tags to construct a correct
HTML document.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_entry2text_search()\fR is similar to \fBldap_entry2text\fR, and all of
the like-named parameters have the same meaning except as noted below.   If
\fIbase\fR is not \fINULL\fR, it is the search base to use when executing
search actions.  If it is \fINULL\fR, search action template items are ignored.
If \fIentry\fR is not \fINULL\fR, it should contain the \fIobjectClass\fR
attribute values for the entry to be displayed.  If \fIentry\fR is \fINULL\fR,
\fIdn\fR must not be \fINULL\fR, and  \fBldap_entry2text_search\fR will
retrieve the  \fBobjectClass\fR values itself by calling \fBldap_search_s.\fR
\fBldap_entry2text_search\fR will determine the appropriate display template to
use by calling \fBldap_oc2template\fR, and will call \fBldap_search_s\fR to
retrieve any attribute values to be displayed.  The \fItmpllist\fR parameter is
a pointer to the entire list of templates available (usually obtained by
calling \fBldap_init_templates\fR or \fBldap_init_templates_buf\fR). If
\fItmpllist\fR is \fINULL\fR, \fBldap_entry2text_search\fR will attempt to read
a load templates from the default template configuration file
\fBETCDIR/ldaptemplates.conf\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_vals2text\fR produces a text representation of a single set of LDAP
attribute values.  The \fIld,\fR \fIbuf,\fR \fIwriteproc,\fR \fIwriteparm,\fR
\fIeol,\fR and \fIrdncount\fR parameters are the same as the like-named
parameters for \fBldap_entry2text\fR. \fIvals\fR is a NULL-terminated list of
values, usually obtained by a call to \fBldap_get_values\fR. \fIlabel\fR is a
string shown next to the values (usually a friendly form of an LDAP attribute
name). \fIlabelwidth\fR specifies the label margin, which is the number of
blank spaces displayed to the left of the values. If zero is passed, a default
label width is used. \fIsyntaxid\fR is a display template attribute syntax
identifier (see  \fBldap_disptmpl\fR(3LDAP) for a list of the pre-defined
\fBLDAP_SYN_...\fR values).
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_entry2html\fR produces an HTML representation of \fIentry.\fR It
behaves exactly like ldap_entry2text(3LDAP), except for the formatted output
and the addition of two parameters. \fIurlprefix\fR is the starting text to use
when constructing an LDAP URL.  The default is the string \fIldap:///\fR The
second additional parameter, \fIbase,\fR the search base to use when executing
search actions.  If it is  \fINULL\fR, search action template items are
ignored.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_entry2html_search\fR behaves exactly like
\fBldap_entry2text_search\fR(3LDAP), except HTML output is produced and one
additional parameter is required. \fIurlprefix\fR is the starting text to use
when constructing an LDAP URL.  The default is the string \fIldap:///\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_vals2html\fR behaves exactly like
\fBldap_vals2text\fR,\fBexcept\fRHTML\fBoutput\fRis and one additional
parameter is required. \fIurlprefix\fR is the starting text to use when
constructing an LDAP URL. The default is the string \fIldap:///\fR
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions all return an LDAP error code. \fBLDAP_SUCCESS\fR is returned
if no error occurs. See \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP) for details. The \fIld_errno\fR
field of the \fIld\fR parameter is also set to indicate the error.
.SH FILES
.sp
.LP
\fBETCDIR/ldaptemplates.conf\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_disptmpl\fR(3LDAP), \fBldaptemplates.conf\fR(4) ,
\fBattributes\fR(5)
