'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LDAP_GET_ENTRY_CONTROLS 3LDAP "Jan 6, 2003"
.SH NAME
ldap_get_entry_controls \- get the LDAP controls included with a directory
entry in a set of search results
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR\fB-flag \&.\|.\|.\fR \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|.\fB-l\fRldap [\fB -library \&.\|.\|. \fR]
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_get_entry_controls\fR(\fBLDAP *\fR\fIld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage *\fR\fIentry\fR,
     \fBLDAPControl ***\fR\fIserverctrlsp\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldap_get_entry_controls()\fR function retrieves the LDAP v3 controls
included in a directory entry in a chain of search results. The LDAP controls
are specified in an array of \fBLDAPControl\fR structures. Each
\fBLDAPControl\fR structure represents an LDAP control. The function takes
\fIentry\fR as a parameter, which points to an \fBLDAPMessage\fR structure that
represents an entry in a chain of search results.
.sp
.LP
The entry notification controls that are used with persistent search controls
are the only controls that are returned with individual entries. Other controls
are returned with results sent from the server. You can call
\fBldap_parse_result()\fR to retrieve those controls.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_get_entry_controls()\fR returns the following error codes.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
LDAP controls were successfully retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_DECODING_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
An error occurred when decoding the BER-encoded message.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_PARAM_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
An invalid parameter was passed to the function.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBLDAP_NO_MEMORY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Memory cannot be allocated.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_parse_result\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
