'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LDAP_ABANDON 3LDAP "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
ldap_abandon \- abandon an LDAP operation in progress
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBint\fR \fBldap_abandon\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBint\fR \fImsgid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBldap_abandon()\fR function is used to abandon or cancel an LDAP
operation in progress.  The \fImsgid\fR passed should be the message id of an
outstanding LDAP operation, as returned by \fBldap_search\fR(3LDAP),
\fBldap_modify\fR(3LDAP), etc.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_abandon\fR(\|) checks to see if the result of the operation has already
come in.  If it has, it deletes it from the queue of pending messages.  If not,
it sends an LDAP abandon operation to the LDAP server.
.sp
.LP
The caller can expect that the result of an abandoned operation will not be
returned from a future call to \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP).
.SH ERRORS
.LP
\fBldap_abandon()\fR returns  \fB0\fR if successful or \fB\(mi1\fRotherwise and
setting \fIld_errno\fR appropriately. See \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP) for details.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_result\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_error\fR(3LDAP),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
