'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LDAP_CHARSET 3LDAP "Jan 27, 2002"
.SH NAME
ldap_charset, ldap_set_string_translators, ldap_t61_to_8859, ldap_8859_to_t61,
ldap_translate_from_t61, ldap_translate_to_t61, ldap_enable_translation \- LDAP
character set translation functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc[ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lldap[ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <lber.h>
#include <ldap.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_set_string_translators\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR,
     \fBBERTranslateProc\fR \fIencode_proc\fR, \fBBERTranslateProc\fR \fIdecodeproc\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBtypedef\fR \fBint\fR(\fB*BERTranslateProc)(char\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*buflenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_t61_to_8859\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*buflenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_8859_to_t61\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*buflenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_translate_from_t61\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR,
     \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*lenp\fR, \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBldap_translate_to_t61\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI**bufp\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fI*lenp\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIfree_input\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBldap_enable_translation\fR(\fBLDAP\fR \fI*ld\fR, \fBLDAPMessage\fR \fI*entry\fR, \fBint\fR \fIenable\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions are used to used to enable translation  of character strings
used in the LDAP library to and from  the T.61 character set used in the LDAP
protocol.  These  functions are only available if the LDAP and LBER libraries
are compiled with  \fBSTR_TRANSLATION\fR defined. It is also  possible to turn
on character translation by default so that all LDAP library callers will
experience translation; see the LDAP Make-common source file for details.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_set_string_translators()\fR sets the translation functions that will be
used by the LDAP library.  They are not actually used until the
\fIld_lberoptions\fR field of the LDAP structure is set to include the
\fBLBER_TRANSLATE_STRINGS\fR option.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_t61_to_8859()\fR and \fBldap_8859_to_t61()\fR are translation functions
for converting between T.61 characters and ISO-8859 characters.  The specific
8859 character set used is determined at compile time.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_translate_from_t61()\fR is used to translate a string of characters
from the T.61 character set to a different character set.  The actual
translation is done using the \fIdecode_proc\fR that was passed to a previous
call to \fBldap_set_string_translators()\fR. On entry, \fI*bufp\fR should point
to the start of the T.61 characters to be translated and \fI*lenp\fR should
contain the number of bytes to translate.  If \fIfree_input\fR is non-zero, the
input buffer will be freed if translation is a success.  If the translation is
a success, \fBLDAP_SUCCESS\fR will be returned, \fI*bufp\fR will point to a
newly malloc'd buffer that contains the translated characters, and \fI*lenp\fR
will contain the length of the result. If translation fails, an LDAP error code
will be returned.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_translate_to_t61()\fR is used to translate a string of characters to
the T.61 character set from a different character set.  The actual translation
is done using the \fIencode_proc\fR that was passed to a previous call to
\fBldap_set_string_translators()\fR. This function is called just like
\fBldap_translate_from_t61()\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_enable_translation()\fR is used to turn on or off string translation
for the LDAP entry \fIentry\fR (typically obtained by calling
\fBldap_first_entry()\fR or \fBldap_next_entry()\fR after a successful LDAP
search operation). If \fBenable\fR is zero, translation is disabled; if
non-zero, translation is enabled.  This function is useful if you need to
ensure that a particular attribute is not translated when it is extracted using
\fBldap_get_values()\fR or \fBldap_get_values_len()\fR. For example, you would
not want to translate a binary attributes such as \fBjpegPhoto\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
