.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions
.\" for redistribution.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH ERF 3M "Jul 12, 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
erf, erff, erfl \- error function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBerf\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBerff\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBerfl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions compute the error function of their argument \fIx\fR, defined
as:
.sp
2/sqrt(pi)*intregral from 0 to x of exp(-t*t) dt
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return the value of the error
function.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is NaN, a NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is \(+-0, \(+-0 is returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is \(+-Inf, \(+-1 is returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is subnormal, 2/sqrt(\c
.if n pi\c
.if t \(*p
\c
) * 2 is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab(	) box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBerfc\fR(3M), \fBfeclearexcept\fR(3M), \fBfetestexcept\fR(3M),
\fBisnan\fR(3M), \fBmath.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
