.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH LLROUND 3M "Jul 12, 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
llround, llroundf, llroundl \- round to nearest integer value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <math.h>

\fBlong long\fR \fBllround\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBllroundf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong long\fR \fBllroundl\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions rounds their argument to the nearest integer value, rounding
halfway cases away from 0 regardless of the current rounding direction.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
 Upon successful completion, these functions return the rounded integer value.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is NaN, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is +Inf, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is -Inf, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.sp
.LP
If the correct value is positive and too large to represent as a \fBlong
long\fR, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.sp
.LP
 If the correct value is negative and too large to represent as a \fBlong
long\fR, a domain error occurs and an unspecified value is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDomain Error\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The \fIx\fR argument is NaN or \(+-Inf, or the correct value is not
representable as an integer.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR & \fBMATH_ERREXCEPT\fR) is
non-zero, then the invalid floating-point exception will be raised.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
return, if \fBfetestexcept\fR(\fBFE_INVALID\fR | \fBFE_DIVBYZERO\fR |
\fBFE_OVERFLOW\fR | \fBFE_UNDERFLOW\fR) is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.sp
.LP
These functions differ from the \fBllrint\fR(3M) functions in that the default
rounding direction for the \fBllround()\fR functions round halfway cases away
from 0 and need not raise the inexact floating-point exception for non-integer
arguments that round to within the range of the return type.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab(	) box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(3M), \fBfetestexcept\fR(3M), \fBllrint\fR(3M),
\fBlrint\fR(3M), \fBlround\fR(3M), \fBmath.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBstandards\fR(5)
