'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. and The Open Group. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TGAMMA 3M "Jul 12, 2006" "SunOS 5.11" "Mathematical Library Functions"
.SH NAME
tgamma, tgammaf, tgammal \- compute gamma function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
c99 [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <math.h>

\fBdouble\fR \fBtgamma\fR(\fBdouble\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBfloat\fR \fBtgammaf\fR(\fBfloat\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBlong double\fR \fBtgammal\fR(\fBlong double\fR \fIx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions compute the \fBgamma()\fR function of \fIx\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return \fBgamma\fR(\fIx\fR).
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is a negative integer, a domain error occurs and a NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If the correct value would cause overflow, a range error occurs and
\fBtgamma()\fR, \fBtgammaf()\fR, and \fBtgammal()\fR return the value of the
macro \(+-\fBHUGE_VAL\fR, \(+-\fBHUGE_VALF\fR, or \(+-\fBHUGE_VALL\fR,
respectively.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is NaN, a NaN is returned.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is \(+-Inf, \fIx\fR is returned.
.sp
.LP
If x is \(+-0, a pole error occurs and \fBtgamma()\fR, \fBtgammaf()\fR, and
\fBtgammal()\fR return \(+-\fBHUGE_VAL\fR, \(+-\fBHUGE_VALF\fR, and
\(+-\fBHUGE_VALL\fR, respectively.
.sp
.LP
If \fIx\fR is +Inf, a domain error occurs and a NaN is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
These functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBDomain Error\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value of \fIx\fR is a negative integer or \fIx\fR is \(miInf.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR & \fBMATH_ERREXCEPT\fR) is
non-zero, then the invalid floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBPole Error\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value of \fIx\fR is zero.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR & \fBMATH_ERREXCEPT\fR) is
non-zero, then the divide-by-zero floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBRange Error\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.rt
The value overflows.
.sp
If the integer expression (\fBmath_errhandling\fR & \fBMATH_ERREXCEPT\fR) is
non-zero, then the overflow floating-point exception is raised.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
An application wanting to check for exceptions should call
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(\fBFE_ALL_EXCEPT\fR) before calling these functions. On
return, if \fBfetestexcept\fR(\fBFE_INVALID\fR | \fBFE_DIVBYZERO\fR |
\fBFE_OVERFLOW\fR | \fBFE_UNDERFLOW\fR) is non-zero, an exception has been
raised. An application should either examine the return value or check the
floating point exception flags to detect exceptions.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab(	) box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i)
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i)
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfeclearexcept\fR(3M), \fBfetestexcept\fR(3M), \fBlgamma\fR(3M),
\fBmath.h\fR(3HEAD), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
