.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992, X/Open Company Limited.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH GETSOCKNAME 3XNET "Jun 10, 2002"
.SH NAME
getsockname \- get the socket name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sys/socket.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetsockname\fR(\fBint\fR \fIsocket\fR, \fBstruct sockaddr *restrict\fR \fIaddress\fR,
     \fBsocklen_t *restrict\fR \fIaddress_len\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBgetsockname()\fR function retrieves the locally-bound name of the
specified socket, stores this address in the \fBsockaddr\fR structure pointed
to by the \fIaddress\fR argument, and stores the length of this address in the
object pointed to by the \fIaddress_len\fR argument.
.sp
.LP
If the actual length of the address is greater than the length of the supplied
\fBsockaddr\fR structure, the stored address will be truncated.
.sp
.LP
If the socket has not been bound to a local name, the value stored in the
object pointed to by \fIaddress\fR is unspecified.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned, the \fIaddress\fR argument points to
the address of the socket, and the \fIaddress_len\fR argument points to the
length of the address.  Otherwise, \(mi1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBgetsockname()\fR function will fail:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The \fIsocket\fR argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The  \fIaddress\fR or  \fIaddress_len\fR parameter can not be accessed or
written.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSOCK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The \fIsocket\fR argument does not refer to a socket.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOPNOTSUPP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The operation is not supported for this socket's protocol.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetsockname()\fR function may fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The socket has been shut down.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOBUFS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Insufficient resources were available in the system to complete the call.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
There were insufficient STREAMS resources available for the operation to
complete.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBsockaddr\fR(3SOCKET),
\fBaccept\fR(3XNET), \fBbind\fR(3XNET), \fBgetpeername\fR(3XNET),
\fBsocket\fR(3XNET) \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBstandards\fR(5)
