.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, The IEEE and The Open Group.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH INET_NTOP 3XNET "Nov 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
inet_ntop, inet_pton \- convert IPv4 and IPv6 addresses between binary and text
form
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lxnet\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <arpa/inet.h>

\fBconst char *\fR\fBinet_ntop\fR(\fBint\fR \fIaf\fR, \fBconst void *restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR,
     \fBchar *restrict\fR \fIdst\fR, \fBsocklen_t\fR \fIsize\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBinet_pton\fR(\fBint\fR \fIaf\fR, \fBconst char *restrict\fR \fIsrc\fR, \fIdst\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBinet_ntop()\fR function converts a numeric address into a text string
suitable for presentation. The \fIaf\fR argument specifies the family of the
address. This can be \fBAF_INET\fR or \fBAF_INET6\fR. The \fIsrc\fR argument
points to a buffer holding an IPv4 address if the \fIaf\fR argument is
\fBAF_INET\fR,  or an IPv6 address if the \fIaf\fR argument is \fBAF_INET6\fR.
The \fIdst\fR argument points to a buffer where the function stores the
resulting text string; it cannot be \fINULL\fR. The \fIsize\fR argument
specifies the size of this buffer, which must be large enough to hold the text
string (\fBINET_ADDRSTRLEN\fR characters for IPv4, \fBINET6_ADDRSTRLEN\fR
characters for IPv6).
.sp
.LP
The \fBinet_pton()\fR function converts an address in its standard text
presentation form into its numeric binary form. The \fIaf\fR argument specifies
the family of the address. The \fBAF_INET\fR and \fBAF_INET6\fR address
families are supported. The \fIsrc\fR argument points to the string being
passed in. The \fIdst\fR argument points to a buffer into which the function
stores the numeric address; this must be large enough to hold the numeric
address (32 bits for \fBAF_INET\fR, 128 bits for \fBAF_INET6\fR).
.sp
.LP
If the \fIaf\fR argument of \fBinet_pton()\fR is \fBAF_INET\fR, the \fIsrc\fR
string is in the standard IPv4 dotted-decimal form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ddd.ddd.ddd.ddd
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where "\fBddd\fR"is a one to three digit decimal number between 0 and 255 (see
\fBinet_addr\fR(3XNET)). The \fBinet_pton()\fR function does not accept other
formats (such as the octal numbers, hexadecimal numbers, and fewer than four
numbers that \fBinet_addr()\fR accepts).
.sp
.LP
If the \fIaf\fR argument of \fBinet_pton()\fR is \fBAF_INET6\fR, the \fIsrc\fR
string is in one of the following standard IPv6 text forms:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
The preferred form is "\fBx:x:x:x:x:x:x:x\fR", where the '\fBx\fR's are the
hexadecimal values of the eight 16-bit pieces of the address. Leading zeros in
individual fields can be omitted, but there must be at least one numeral in
every field.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
A string of contiguous zero fields in the preferred form can be shown as
"\fB::\fR". The "\fB::\fR" can only appear once in an address. Unspecified
addresses ("\fB0:0:0:0:0:0:0:0\fR") can be represented simply as "\fB::\fR".
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
A third form that is sometimes more convenient when dealing with a mixed
environment of IPv4 and IPv6 nodes is "\fBx:x:x:x:x:x:d.d.d.d\fR", where
the '\fBx\fR's are the hexadecimal values of the six high-order 16-bit pieces of
the address, and the '\fBd\fR's are the decimal values of the four low-order
8-bit pieces of the address (standard IPv4 representation).
.RE
.sp
.LP
A more extensive description of the standard representations of IPv6 addresses
can be found in RFC 2373.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBinet_ntop()\fR function returns a pointer to the buffer containing the
text string if the conversion succeeds. Otherwise it returns \fINULL\fR  and
sets \fBerrno\fR to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
The \fBinet_pton()\fR function returns 1 if the conversion succeeds, with the
address pointed to by \fIdst\fR in network byte order. It returns 0 if the
input is not a valid IPv4 dotted-decimal string or a valid IPv6 address string.
It returns \(mi1 and sets \fBerrno\fR to \fBEAFNOSUPPORT\fR if the \fIaf\fR
argument is unknown.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBinet_ntop()\fR and \fBinet_pton()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEAFNOSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The \fIaf\fR argument is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOSPC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The size of the \fBinet_ntop()\fR result buffer is inadequate.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBinet_addr\fR(3XNET), \fBattributes\fR(5)
