'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH BLTOCOLOR 3TSOL "Jul 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
bltocolor, bltocolor_r \- get character-coded color name of label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBchar *\fR\fBbltocolor\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fR\fIlabel\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBbltocolor_r\fR(\fBconst m_label_t *\fR\fIlabel\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIsize\fR,
     \fBchar *\fR\fIcolor_name\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBbltocolor()\fR and \fBbltocolor_r()\fR functions get the character-coded
color name associated with the binary label \fIlabel\fR.
.sp
.LP
The calling process must have \fBPRIV_SYS_TRANS_LABEL\fR in its set of
effective privileges to get color names of labels that dominate the current
process's sensitivity label.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBbltocolor()\fR function returns a pointer to a statically allocated
string that contains the character-coded color name specified for the
\fIlabel\fR or returns \fB(char *)0\fR if, for any reason, no character-coded
color name is available for this binary label.
.sp
.LP
The \fBbltocolor_r()\fR function returns a pointer to the \fIcolor_name\fR
string which contains the character-coded color name specified for the
\fIlabel\fR or returns \fB(char *)0\fR if, for any reason, no character-coded
color name is available for this binary label. \fIcolor_name\fR must provide
for a string of at least \fIsize\fR characters.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/tsol/\fR\fBlabel_encodings\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The label encodings file contains the classification names, words, constraints,
and values for the defined labels of this system.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe with exceptions
.TE

.sp
.LP
These functions are obsolete and retained for ease of porting. They might be
removed in a future Solaris Trusted Extensions release. Use the
\fBlabel_to_str\fR(3TSOL) function instead.
.sp
.LP
The \fBbltocolor()\fR function returns a pointer to a statically allocated
string. Subsequent calls to it will overwrite that string with a new
character-coded color name. It is not MT-Safe. The \fBbltocolor_r()\fR function
should be used in multithreaded applications.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlabel_to_str\fR(3TSOL), \fBlibtsol\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
.sp
.LP
If \fIlabel\fR includes a specified word or words, the character-coded color
name associated with the first word specified in the label encodings file is
returned. Otherwise, if no character-coded color name is specified for
\fIlabel\fR, the first character-coded color name specified in the label
encodings file with the same classification as the binary label is returned.
