'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETPLABEL 3TSOL "Jul 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
getplabel \- get process label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgetplabel\fR(\fBm_label_t *\fR\fIlabel_p\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetplabel()\fR function obtains the sensitivity label of the calling
process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBgetplabel()\fR returns 0. Otherwise it returns
-1, \fIlabel_p\fR is unchanged, and \fIerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetplabel()\fR function fails and \fIlabel_p\fR does not refer to a
valid sensitivity label if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEFAULT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
\fIlabel_p\fR points to an invalid address.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBucred_getlabel\fR(3C), \fBlibtsol\fR(3LIB), \fBm_label_alloc\fR(3TSOL),
\fBm_label_free\fR(3TSOL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIObtaining a Process Label\fR in \fISolaris Trusted Extensions Developer\&'s
Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
.sp
.LP
This function returns different values for system processes than
\fBucred_getlabel\fR(3C) returns.
