'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GETUSERRANGE 3TSOL "Jul 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
getuserrange \- get the label range of a user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflags\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBm_range_t *\fR\fBgetuserrange\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIusername\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetuserrange()\fR function returns the label range of \fIusername\fR.
The lower bound in the range is used as the initial workspace label when a user
logs into a multilevel desktop. The upper bound, or clearance, is used as an
upper limit to the available labels that a user can assign to labeled
workspaces.
.sp
.LP
The default value for a user's label range is specified in
\fBlabel_encodings\fR(4). Overriding values for individual users are specified
in \fBuser_attr\fR(4).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetuserrange()\fR function returns \fBNULL\fR if the memory allocation
fails. Otherwise, the function returns a structure which must be freed by the
caller, as follows:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
m_range_t  *range;
    ...
    m_label_free(range->lower_bound);
    m_label_free(range->upper_bound);
    free(range);
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBgetuserrange()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
The physical limits of the system are exceeded by size bytes of memory which
cannot be allocated.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	See below.
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBgetuserrange()\fR function is Committed for systems that implement the
Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) MAC policy of \fBlabel_encodings\fR(4). Other
policies might exist in a future release of Trusted Extensions that might make
obsolete or supplement \fBlabel_encodings\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfree\fR(3C), \fBlibtsol\fR(3LIB), \fBm_label_free\fR(3TSOL),
\fBlabel_encodings\fR(4), \fBuser_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
