'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH HEXTOB 3TSOL "Jul 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
hextob, htobsl, htobclear \- convert hexadecimal string to binary label
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR...] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsol\fR [\fIlibrary\fR...]
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include <tsol/label.h>

\fBint htobsl\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBm_label_t *\fR\fIlabel\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBhtobclear\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIs\fR, \fBm_label_t *\fR\fIclearance\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions convert hexadecimal string representations of internal label
values into binary labels.
.sp
.LP
The \fBhtobsl()\fR function converts into a binary sensitivity label, a
hexadecimal string of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0x\fIsensitivity_label_hexadecimal_value\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBhtobclear()\fR function converts into a binary clearance, a hexadecimal
string of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
0x\fIclearance_hexadecimal_value\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
These functions return non-zero if the conversion was successful, otherwise
zero is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.sp
.LP
These functions are obsolete and retained for ease of porting. They might be
removed in a future Solaris Trusted Extensions release. Use the
\fBstr_to_label\fR(3TSOL) function instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibtsol\fR(3LIB), \fBstr_to_label\fR(3TSOL), \fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBlabels\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
