#
# Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
#

#
# Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Item documentation.
#

=head1 NAME

Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Item - exacct item manipulation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 use Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object;
 my $ea_item = Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Item->new(
     &EXT_UINT64 | &EXC_DEFAULT | &EXD_PROC_PID, $$);

This module is used for manipulating C<libexacct(3LIB)> data Items. A
libexacct Item is represented as an opaque reference blessed into the
C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Item> class, which is a subclass of the
C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object> class. The underlying libexacct data types are
mapped onto Perl types as follows:

B<C< libexacct type                Perl internal type>>

 EXT_UINT8                     IV (integer)

 EXT_UINT16                    IV (integer)

 EXT_UINT32                    IV (integer)

 EXT_UINT64                    IV (integer)

 EXT_DOUBLE                    NV (double)

 EXT_STRING                    PV (string)

 EXT_RAW                       PV (string)

 EXT_EXACCT_OBJECT             Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object subclass

=head2 Constants

None.

=head2 Functions

None.

=head2 Class methods

Class methods include those inherited from the C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object>
base class, plus the following:

B<C<new($catalog, $value)>>

This method creates and returns a new C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Item>.
The catalog tag can be either an integer or a
C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Catalog>. This catalog tag controls the conversion of
the Perl value to the corresponding Perl exacct data type as described in the
table above. If the catalog tag has a type field of C<EXT_EXACCT_OBJECT>, the
value must be a reference to either an Item or a Group object and the passed
object is recursively copied and stored inside the new Item. Because the
returned Item is constant, it is impossible, for example, to create an Item
representing CPU seconds and subsequently modify its value or change its
catalog value. This behavior is intended to prevent mismatches between the
catalog tag and the data value.

=head2 Object methods

Object methods are those inherited from the C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object>.

=head2 Exports

None.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

See C<attributes(5)> for descriptions of the following attributes:

  ___________________________________________________________
 |       ATTRIBUTE TYPE        |       ATTRIBUTE VALUE       |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Availability                | CPAN (http://www.cpan.org)  |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|
 | Interface Stability         | Evolving                    |
 |_____________________________|_____________________________|

=head1 SEE ALSO

C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct(3)>, C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Catalog(3)>,
C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::File(3)>, C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object(3)>,
C<Sun::Solaris::Exacct::Object::Group(3)>, C<libexacct(3LIB)>, C<attributes(5)>
