'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FCOE_CREATEPORT 3FCOE "Apr 1, 2009"
.SH NAME
FCOE_CreatePort \- create an FCoE port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lfcoe [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libfcoe.h>

\fBint\fR \fBFCOE_CreatePort\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fImacLinkName\fR, \fBint\fR \fIportType\fR,
     \fBstruct fcoe_port_wwn\fR \fIpwwn\fR, \fBstruct fcoe_port_wwn\fR \fInwwn\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIpromiscuous\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImacLinkName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The name of the MAC link on which to create the FCoE port.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIportType\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This parameter should always be \fBFCOE_PORTTYPE_TARGET\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpwwn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The Port WorldWideName to be used for the FCoE port. Fill the structure with
zeros to let the \fBfcoe\fR driver generate a valid Port WWN from the MAC
address of the underlying NIC hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInwwn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The Node WorldWideName to be used for the FCoE port. Fill the structure with
zeros to let the \fBfcoe\fR driver generate a valid Node WWN from the MAC
address of the underlying NIC hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpromiscuous\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A non-zero value to enable promiscuous mode on the underlying NIC hardware. A
value of 0 indicates use of the multiple unicast address feature of the
underlying NIC hardware.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBFCOE_CreatePort()\fR function creates an FCoE port over the specified
MAC link.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBfcoe\fR driver is busy and cannot complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_ALREADY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An existing FCoE port was found over the specified MAC link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_OPEN_DEV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Failed to open \fBfcoe\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_WWN_SAME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified Port WWN is same as the specified Node WWN.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_MAC_LEN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
MAC link name exceeds the maximum length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_PWWN_CONFLICTED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified Port WWN is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_NWWN_CONFLICTED\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The specified Node WWN is already in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_NEED_JUMBO_FRAME\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MTU size of the specified MAC link needs to be increased to 2500 or above.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_OPEN_MAC\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Failed to open the specified MAC link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_CREATE_PORT\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Failed to create FCoE port on the specified MAC link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibfcoe\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
