'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FCOE_GETPORTLIST 3FCOE "Apr 1, 2009"
.SH NAME
FCOE_GetPortList \- get a list of FCoE ports
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lfcoe [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libfcoe.h>

\fBint\fR \fBFCOE_GetPortList\fR(\fBunsigned int *\fR\fIport_num\fR,
     \fBstruct fcoe_port_attr **\fR\fIportlist\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIport_num\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A pointer to an integer that, on successful return, contains the number of FCoE
ports in the system.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIportlist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A pointer to a pointer to an \fBfcoe_port_attr\fR structure that, on successful
return, contains a list of the FCoE ports in the system.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBFCOE_GetPortList()\fR function retrieves a list of FCoE ports. When the
caller is finished using the list, it must free the memory used by the list by
calling \fBfree\fR(3C).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBfcoe\fR driver is busy and cannot complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_INVAL_ARG\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value specified for \fIport_num\fR or \fIportlist\fR was not valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_OPEN_DEV\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Failed to open \fBfcoe\fR device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfree\fR(3C), \fBlibfcoe\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
