'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FCOE_DELETEPORT 3FCOE "Apr 1, 2009"
.SH NAME
FCOE_DeletePort \- delete an FCoE port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lfcoe [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <libfcoe.h>

\fBint\fR \fBFCOE_DeletePort\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fImacLinkName\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImacLinkName\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The name of the MAC link from which to delete the FCoE port.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBFCOE_DeletePort()\fR function deletes an FCoE port from the specified
MAC link.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The following values are returned:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_BUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBfcoe\fR driver is busy and cannot complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_ERROR_MAC_LEN\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The MAC link name exceeds the maximum length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_MAC_NOT_FOUND\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The FCoE port was not found on the specified MAC link.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBFCOE_STATUS_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The API call was successful.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibfcoe\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
