'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LD_SUPPORT 3EXT "Nov 3, 2006"
.SH NAME
ld_support, ld_atexit, ld_atexit64, ld_file, ld_file64, ld_input_done,
ld_input_section, ld_input_section64, ld_open, ld_open64, ld_section,
ld_section64, ld_start, ld_start64, ld_version \- link-editor support functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_atexit\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_atexit64\fR(\fBint\fR \fIstatus\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_file\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBconst Elf_Kind\fR \fIkind\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBElf *\fR\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_file64\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBconst Elf_Kind\fR \fIkind\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBElf *\fR\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_input_done\fR(\fBuint_t *\fR\fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_input_section\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBElf32_Shdr **\fR\fIshdr\fR,
     \fBElf32_Word\fR \fIsndx\fR, \fBElf_Data *\fR\fIdata\fR, \fBElf *\fR\fIelf\fR, \fBuint_t *\fR\fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_input_section64\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBElf64_Shdr **\fR\fIshdr\fR,
     \fBElf64_Word\fR \fIsndx\fR, \fBElf_Data *\fR\fIdata\fR, \fBElf *\fR\fIelf\fR, \fBuint_t *\fR\fIflags\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_open\fR(\fBconst char **\fR\fIpname\fR, \fBconst char **\fR\fIfname\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIfd\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBElf **\fR\fIelf\fR, \fBElf *\fR\fIref\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIoff\fR, \fBElf_kind\fR \fIkind\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_open64\fR(\fBconst char **\fR\fIpname\fR, \fBconst char **\fR\fIfname\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIfd\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBElf **\fR\fIelf\fR, \fBElf *\fR\fIref\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIoff\fR, \fBElf_kind\fR \fIkind\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_section\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBElf32_Shdr\fR \fIshdr\fR, \fBElf32_Word\fR \fIsndx\fR,
     \fBElf_Data *\fR\fIdata\fR, \fBElf *\fR\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_section64\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBElf64_Shdr\fR \fIshdr\fR, \fBElf64_Word\fR \fIsndx\fR,
     \fBElf_Data *\fR\fIdata\fR, \fBElf *\fR\fIelf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_start\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBconst Elf32_Half\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIcaller\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_start64\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR, \fBconst Elf64_Half\fR \fItype\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIcaller\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBld_version\fR(\fBuint_t\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A link-editor support library is a user-created shared object offering one or
more of these interfaces. These interfaces are called by the link-editor
\fBld\fR(1) at various stages of the link-editing process. See the \fILinker
and Libraries Guide\fR for a full description of the link-editor support
mechanism.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBld\fR(1)
.sp
.LP
\fILinker and Libraries Guide\fR
