'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TSALARM_GET 3EXT "Sep 4, 2007"
.SH NAME
tsalarm_get, tsalarm_set \- get or set alarm relays
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-ltsalarm\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <tsalarm.h>

\fBint\fR \fBtsalarm_get\fR(\fBuint32_t\fR \fIalarm_type\fR, \fBuint32_t *\fR\fIalarm_state\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBtsalarm_set\fR(\fBuint32_t\fR \fIalarm_type\fR, \fBuint32_t\fR \fIalarm_state\fR);
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIalarm_type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The alarm type whose state is retrieved or set. Valid settings are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_CRITICAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
critical
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_MAJOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
major
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_MINOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
minor
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_USER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
user
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIalarm_state\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The state of the alarm. Valid settings are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_STATE_ON\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The alarm state needs to be changed to "on", or is returned as "on".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_STATE_OFF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The alarm state needs to be changed to "off", or is returned as "off".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_STATE_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The alarm state is returned as unknown.
.RE

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The TSALARM interface provides functions through which alarm relays can be
controlled. The set of functions and data structures of this interface are
defined in the \fB<tsalarm.h>\fR header.
.sp
.LP
There are four alarm relays that are controlled by ILOM. Each alarm can be set
to "on" or "off" by using \fBtsalarm\fR interfaces provided from the host. The
four alarms are labeled as \fBcritical\fR, \fBmajor\fR, \fBminor\fR, and
\fBuser\fR. The user alarm is set by a user application depending on system
condition. LEDs in front of the box provide a visual indication of the four
alarms. The number of alarms and their meanings and labels can vary across
platforms.
.sp
.LP
The \fBtsalarm_get()\fR function gets the state of \fIalarm_type\fR and
returnsit in \fIalarm_state\fR. If successful, the function returns 0.
.sp
.LP
The \fBtsalarm_set()\fR function sets the state of \fIalarm_type\fR to the
value in \fIalarm_state\fR. If successful, the function returns 0.
.sp
.LP
The following structures are defined in \fB<tsalarm.h>\fR:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct tsalarm_req {
     uint32_t     alarm_id;
     uint32_t     alarm_action;
} tsalarm_req_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct tsalarm_resp {
     uint32_t     status;
     uint32_t     alarm_id;
     uint32_t     alarm_state;
} tsalarm_resp_t;
.fi
.in -2

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
The \fBtsalarm_get()\fR and \fBtsalarm_set()\fR functions return the following
values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_CHANNEL_INIT_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Channel initialization failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_COMM_FAILURE\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Channel communication failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_NULL_REQ_DATA\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Allocating memory for request data failed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Successful completion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_UNBOUND_PACKET_RECVD\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
An incorrect packet was received.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBtsalarm_get()\fR function returns the following value:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_GET_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
An error occurred  while getting the alarm state.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBtsalarm_set()\fR function returns the following value:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSALARM_SET_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
An error occurred  while setting the alarm state.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRGet and set an alarm state.
.sp
.LP
The following example demonstrates how to get and set an alarm state.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <tsalarm.h>

void help(char *name) {
   printf("Syntax:  %s [get <type> | set <type> <state>]\en\en", name);
   printf("         type  = { critical, major, minor, user }\en");
   printf("         state = { on, off }\en\en");

   exit(0);
}

int main(int argc, char **argv) {

   uint32_t alarm_type, alarm_state;

   if (argc < 3)
      help(argv[0]);

   if (strncmp(argv[2], "critical", 1) == 0)
      alarm_type = TSALARM_CRITICAL;
   else if (strncmp(argv[2], "major", 2) == 0)
      alarm_type = TSALARM_MAJOR;
   else if (strncmp(argv[2], "minor", 2) == 0)
      alarm_type = TSALARM_MINOR;
   else if (strncmp(argv[2], "user", 1) == 0)
      alarm_type = TSALARM_USER;
   else
      help(argv[0]);

   if (strncmp(argv[1], "get", 1) == 0) {
      tsalarm_get(alarm_type, &alarm_state);
      printf("alarm = %d\etstate = %d\en", alarm_type, alarm_state);
   }
   else if (strncmp(argv[1], "set", 1) == 0) {
      if (strncmp(argv[3], "on", 2) == 0)
         alarm_state = TSALARM_STATE_ON;
      else if (strncmp(argv[3], "off", 2) == 0)
         alarm_state = TSALARM_STATE_OFF;
      else
         help(argv[0]);

      tsalarm_set(alarm_type, alarm_state);
   }
   else {
      help(argv[0]);
   }

   return 0;
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibtsalarm\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
