'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RSM_CREATE_LOCALMEMORY_HANDLE 3RSM "Jun 8, 2001"
.SH NAME
rsm_create_localmemory_handle, rsm_free_localmemory_handle \- create or free
local memory handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_create_localmemory_handle\fR(
     \fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR,
     \fBrsm_localmemory_handle_t *\fR\fIl_handle\fR,
     \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIlocal_vaddr\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIlength\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle\fR(
     \fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t\fR \fIhandle\fR,
     \fBrsm_localmemory_handle_t\fR \fIl_handle\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBrsm_create_localmemory_handle()\fR and
\fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR functions are supporting functions for
\fBrsm_memseg_import_putv\fR(3RSM) and \fBrsm_memseg_import_getv\fR(3RSM).
.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_create_localmemory_handle()\fR function creates a local memory
handle to be used in the I/O vector component of a scatter-gather list of
subsequent \fBrsm_memseg_import_putv()\fR and \fBrsm_memseg_import_getv()\fR
calls. The \fIhandle\fR argument specifies the controller handle obtained from
\fBrsm_get_controller\fR(3RSM). The \fIl_handle\fR argument is a pointer to the
location for the function to return the local memory handle. The
\fIlocal_vaddr\fR argument specifies the local virtual address; it should be
aligned at a page boundary. The \fIlength\fR argument specifies the length of
memory spanned by the handle.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR function unlocks the memory range for
the local handle specified by \fIl_handle\fR and releases the associated system
resources. The \fIhandle\fR argument specifies the controller handle.  All
handles created by a process are freed when the process exits, but the process
should call \fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR as soon as possible to free the
system resources.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error value
is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_create_localmemory_handle()\fR and
\fBrsm_free_localmemory_handle()\fR functions can return the following errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_CTLR_HNDL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Invalid controller handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_LOCALMEM_HNDL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Invalid local memory handle.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The  \fBrsm_create_localmemory_handle()\fR function can return the following
errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_LENGTH\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Invalid length.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_ADDRESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Invalid address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_MEM\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 28n
Insufficient memory.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrsm_memseg_import_putv\fR(3RSM), \fBattributes\fR(5)
