'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2001 by Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RSM_GET_CONTROLLER 3RSM "Jun 8, 2001"
.SH NAME
rsm_get_controller, rsm_get_controller_attr, rsm_release_controller \- get or
release a controller handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... -lrsm [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <rsmapi.h>

\fBint\fR \fBrsm_get_controller\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIname\fR,
     \fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t *\fR\fIcontroller\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_get_controller_attr\fR(\fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t\fR \fIchdl\fR,
     \fBrsmapi_controller_attr_t *\fR\fIattr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBrsm_release_controller\fR(\fBrsmapi_controller_handle_t\fR \fIchdl\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The controller functions provide mechanisms for obtaining access to a
controller, determining the characteristics of the controller, and releasing
the controller.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR function acquires a controller handle through
the \fIcontroller\fR argument.  The \fIname\fR argument is the specific
controller instance (for example, "sci0" or "loopback"). This controller handle
is used for subsequent RSMAPI calls.
.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_get_controller_attr()\fR function obtains a controller's attributes
through the \fIattr\fR argument. The \fIchdl\fR argument is the controller
handle obtained by the   \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR call. The attribute
structure is defined in the <\fBrsmapi\fR> header.
.sp
.LP
The  \fBrsm_release_controller()\fR function releases the resources associated
with the controller identified by the controller handle \fIchdl\fR, obtained by
calling  \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR. Each \fBrsm_release_controller()\fR call
must have a corresponding \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR call. It is illegal to
access a controller or segments exported or imported using a released
controller.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, these functions return 0. Otherwise, an error value
is returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR, \fBrsm_get_controller_attr()\fR, and
\fBrsm_release_controller()\fR functions can return the following errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_CTLR_HNDL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Invalid controller handle.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR and  \fBrsm_get_controller_attr()\fR functions
can return the following errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_ADDR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Bad address.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The  \fBrsm_get_controller()\fR function can return the following errors:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_CTLR_NOT_PRESENT\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Controller not present.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_INSUFFICIENT_MEM\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Insufficient memory.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBRSMERR_BAD_LIBRARY_VERSION\fR \fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Invalid library version.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrsm_memseg_export_create\fR(3RSM), \fBrsm_memseg_import_connect\fR(3RSM),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
