.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd October 4, 2025
.Dt EE100X 4D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ee100x
.Nd DDR4 serial presence detect driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa /dev/eeprom/ee100x/*/eeprom
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver supports the I2C EEPROMs found on DDR4 DIMMs.
The driver provides read-only access to the SPD
.Pq serial presence detect
EEPROM through a character device powered by the
.Xr eedev 4D
driver.
These devices are generally found at 7-bit addresses between 0x50 and
0x57.
The lower three bits of the address are used to indicate which DIMM the
device is found on
.Pq ranging from 0 to 7 .
.Pp
The SPD device contains 512 bytes of memory that are organized into two
pages of 256 bytes each.
Devices can be found under
.Pa /dev/eeprom/ee100x .
Contents of the SPD data can be decoded with
.Xr libjedec 3LIB .
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /dev/eeprom/spd511x/*/eeprom
EEPROM character device file.
.It Pa /kernel/drv/amd64/ee100x
Device driver (x86)
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libjedec 3LIB ,
.Xr eedev 4D ,
.Xr spd511x 4D ,
.Xr i2cadm 8
.Rs
.%Q JEDEC Solid State Technology Association
.%T Definitions of the EE1004-v 4 Kbit Serial Presence Detect (SPD) EEPROM and TSE2004av 4 Kbit SPD EEPROM with Temperature Sensor (TS) for Memory Module Applications
.%N JESD21-C Release 26
.Re
