.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2023 RackTop Systems, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 29, 2023
.Dt LMRC 4D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lmrc
.Nd LSI MegaRAID SAS 3.0 Controller HBA driver
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver works with Broadcom MegaRAID SAS controllers of the Aero and Ventura
generation, based on the following chipsets:
.Bl -dash
.It
MegaRAID Tri-Mode SAS35xx
.It
MegaRAID Tri-Mode SAS34xx
.It
MegaRAID 12G SAS/PCIe SAS38xx
.It
MegaRAID 12G SAS/PCIe SAS39xx
.El
.Pp
These controllers support SAS, SATA, and NVMe interfaces and expose connected
devices either as RAID volumes or as JBOD, depending on the particular chipset
and firmware configuration.
.sp
The driver supports the following capabilities:
.Bl -dash
.It
Dynamic hot-plug
.It
Honors packet timeouts specified in
.Xr scsi_pkt 9S
.It
Reset of target or logical unit via
.Xr scsi_reset 9F
.It
Abort for individual commands via
.Xr scsi_abort 9F
.It
Command queueing
.Pq both tagged and untagged
.El
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver is based on
.Xr iport 9 ,
and uses one iport for physical
.Pq JBOD
devices, and another iport for logical
.Pq RAID
devices.
Depending on the controller and firmware, even physical
.Pq JBOD
devices may appear as
logical
.Pq RAID
devices to the driver.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sd 4D ,
.Xr st 4D ,
.Xr scsi 5 ,
.Xr iport 9 ,
.Xr scsi_abort 9F ,
.Xr scsi_reset 9F ,
.Xr scsi_pkt 9S
.Sh BUGS
The driver has not been tested with SATA or NVMe devices, and as such it is not
known whether it will work properly when SATA or NVMe drives are connected.
