.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2025 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd September 21, 2025
.Dt TS511X 4D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ts511x
.Nd DDR5 temperature sensor driver
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Pa /dev/sensors/temperature/i2c/ts511x*
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
driver provides support for the discrete DDR5 thermal sensor I2C device
based on JEDEC standard JESD302-1A including the part numbers TS5110,
TS5111, TS5210, and TS5211.
DIMMs may have up to two such sensors present on them.
The first can be found at addresses 0x10 through 0x17 and the second may
be found at addresses 0x30 through 0x37.
.Pp
The temperature sensor measures in units of 0.25 degrees Celsius and its
accuracy varies depending on the current temperature range.
Access to the thermal sensor is provided through the
.Xr ksensor 4D
driver and kernel framework.
Temperature information is available to the system through the fault
management architecture
.Pq FMA .
The file system location and programming interface to the
.Nm
temperature sensors are considered
.Sy volatile .
.Pp
DDR5 modules have an additional temperature sensor commonly found in
their hub.
That is supported by the
.Xr spd511x 4D
driver.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /dev/sensors/temperature/i2c/spd511x*
Temperature sensor character device file.
.It Pa /kernel/drv/amd64/ts511x
Device driver (x86)
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr spd511x 4D ,
.Xr i2cadm 8
.Rs
.%Q JEDEC Solid State Technology Association
.%T TS511X, TS521X Serial Bus Thermal Sensor Device Standard
.%N JESD302-1A Revision 2.00
.%D August 2023
.Re
