'\" te
.\"  Copyright 2003 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\" Copyright 2022 Oxide Computer Company
.Dd February 5, 2022
.Dt ZCONS 4D
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zcons
.Nd Zone console device driver
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm zcons
character driver exports the console for system zones.
The driver is fundamentally similar to a pseudo-terminal device, and is thus
comprised of two sides:
.Bl -bullet
.It
a manager device, which applications in the global zone can open for
communication
.It
a subsidiary device, which processes in the non-global zone can write to, to
communicate with global zone management applications
.El
.Pp
Applications must not depend on the location of
.Pa /dev
or
.Pa /devices
entries exposed by
.Nm zcons
in the global zone.
Inside a non-global zone, the
.Nm zcons
subsidiary device is fronted by
.Pa /dev/console
and other console-related symbolic links, which are used by applications that
expect to write to the system console.
.Pp
The
.Nm
driver is not a
.Sy Committed
interface, and may change at any time.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /dev/zcons/ZONENAME/globalconsole
Global zone console manager device for zone
.Sy ZONENAME .
.It Pa /dev/zcons/ZONENAME/zoneconsole
Global zone console subsidiary device for zone
.Sy ZONENAME .
.It Pa /dev/zconsole
Non-global zone console (subsidiary device).
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr zones 7 ,
.Xr zoneadm 8 ,
.Xr zonecfg 8
