'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH CB_OPS 9S "Apr 24, 2008"
.SH NAME
cb_ops \- character/block entry points structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/conf.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBcb_ops\fR structure contains all entry points for drivers that support
both character and block entry points. All leaf device drivers that support
direct user process access to a device should declare a \fBcb_ops\fR structure.
.sp
.LP
All drivers that safely allow multiple threads of execution in the driver at
the same time must set the \fBD_MP\fR flag in the \fBcb_flag\fR field. See
\fBopen\fR(9E).
.sp
.LP
If the driver properly handles 64-bit offsets, it should also set the
\fBD_64BIT\fR flag in the \fBcb_flag\fR field. This specifies that the driver
will use the \fBuio_loffset\fR field of the \fBuio\fR(9S) structure.
.sp
.LP
If the driver returns \fBEINTR\fR from \fBopen\fR(9E), it should also set the
\fBD_OPEN_RETURNS_EINTR\fR flag in the \fBcb_flag\fR field. This lets the
framework know that it is safe for the driver to return \fBEINTR\fR when
waiting, to provide exclusion for a last-reference \fBclose\fR(9E) call to
complete before calling \fBopen\fR(9E).
.sp
.LP
The \fBmt-streams\fR(9F) function describes other flags that can be set in the
\fBcb_flag\fR field.
.sp
.LP
The \fBcb_rev\fR is the \fBcb_ops\fR structure revision number. This field must
be set to \fBCB_REV\fR.
.sp
.LP
Non-\fBSTREAMS\fR drivers should set \fBcb_str\fR to \fINULL\fR.
.sp
.LP
The following \fBDDI\fR/\fBDKI\fR or \fBDKI\fR-only or \fBDDI\fR-only functions
are provided in the character/block driver operations structure.
.sp

.sp
.TS
c c c c
l l l l .
block/char	Function	Description	
_
b/c	XXopen	\fBDDI\fR/\fBDKI\fR	
b/c	XXclose	\fBDDI\fR/\fBDKI\fR	
b	XXstrategy	DDI/DKI	
b	XXprint	DDI/DKI	
b	XXdump	DDI(Sun)	
c	XXread	DDI/DKI	
c	XXwrite	DDI/DKI	
c	XXioctl	DDI/DKI	
c	XXdevmap	DDI(Sun)	
c	XXmmap	DKI	
c	XXsegmap	DKI	
c	XXchpoll	DDI/DKI	
c	XXprop_op	DDI(Sun)	
c	XXaread	DDI(Sun)	
c	XXawrite	DDI(Sun)	
.TE

.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int  (*cb_open)(dev_t *devp, int flag, int otyp, cred_t *credp);
int  (*cb_close)(dev_t dev, int flag, int otyp, cred_t *credp);
int  (*cb_strategy)(struct buf *bp);
int  (*cb_print)(dev_t dev, char *str);
int  (*cb_dump)(dev_t dev, caddr_t addr, daddr_t blkno, int nblk);
int  (*cb_read)(dev_t dev, struct uio *uiop, cred_t *credp);
int  (*cb_write)(dev_t dev, struct uio *uiop, cred_t *credp);
int  (*cb_ioctl)(dev_t dev, int cmd, intptr_t arg, int mode,
        cred_t *credp, int *rvalp);
int  (*cb_devmap)(dev_t dev, devmap_cookie_t dhp, offset_t off,
        size_t len, size_t *maplen, uint_t model);
int  (*cb_mmap)(dev_t dev, off_t off, int prot);
int  (*cb_segmap)(dev_t dev, off_t off, struct as *asp,
        caddr_t *addrp, off_t len, unsigned int prot,
        unsigned int maxprot, unsigned int flags, cred_t *credp);
int  (*cb_chpoll)(dev_t dev, short events, int anyyet,
        short *reventsp, struct pollhead **phpp);
int  (*cb_prop_op)(dev_t dev, dev_info_t *dip,
        ddi_prop_op_t prop_op, int mod_flags,
        char *name, caddr_t valuep, int *length);
struct streamtab *cb_str;   /* streams information */
int  cb_flag;
int  cb_rev;
int  (*cb_aread)(dev_t dev, struct aio_req *aio, cred_t *credp);
int  (*cb_awrite)(dev_t dev, struct aio_req *aio, cred_t *credp);
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBaread\fR(9E), \fBawrite\fR(9E), \fBchpoll\fR(9E), \fBclose\fR(9E),
\fBdump\fR(9E), \fBioctl\fR(9E), \fBmmap\fR(9E), \fBopen\fR(9E),
\fBprint\fR(9E), \fBprop_op\fR(9E), \fBread\fR(9E), \fBsegmap\fR(9E),
\fBstrategy\fR(9E), \fBwrite\fR(9E), \fBnochpoll\fR(9F), \fBnodev\fR(9F),
\fBnulldev\fR(9F), \fBdev_ops\fR(9S), \fBqinit\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
