'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DDI_IDEVICE_COOKIE 9S "Oct 19, 2005"
.SH NAME
ddi_idevice_cookie \- device interrupt cookie
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI). This interface is obsolete. Use the new
interrupt interfaces referenced in \fBIntro\fR(9F). Refer to \fIWriting Device
Drivers\fR for more information.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBddi_idevice_cookie_t\fR structure contains interrupt priority and
interrupt vector information for a device. This structure is useful for devices
having programmable bus-interrupt levels. \fBddi_add_intr\fR(9F) assigns values
to the \fBddi_idevice_cookie_t\fR structure members.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
u_short	idev_vector;      /* interrupt vector */
ushort_t	idev_priority;    /* interrupt priority */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBidev_vector\fR field contains the interrupt vector number for vectored
bus architectures such as VMEbus. The \fBidev_priority\fR field contains the
bus interrupt priority level.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBddi_add_intr\fR(9F), \fBIntro\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
