.\" Copyright 2018, Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.Dd July 9, 2018
.Dt FREE_RTN 9S
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm free_rtn
.Nd structure that specifies a driver's message-freeing routine
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/stream.h
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Vt free_rtn
structure is referenced by the
.Vt datab
structure.
When
.Xr freeb 9F
is called to free the message, the driver's message-freeing
routine (referenced through the
.Vt free_rtn
structure) is called, with arguments, to free the data buffer.
.Sh STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.Bd -literal -offset 2n
void     (*free_func)()      /* user's freeing routine */
char     *free_arg           /* arguments to free_func() */
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Vt free_rtn
structure is defined as type
.Vt frtn_t .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr esballoc 9F ,
.Xr freeb 9F ,
.Xr datab 9S
.Rs
.%T STREAMS Programming Guide
.Re
