'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IOCBLK 9S "Nov 13, 1996"
.SH NAME
iocblk \- STREAMS data structure for the M_IOCTL message type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/stream.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBiocblk\fR data structure is used for passing \fBM_IOCTL\fR messages.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int         ioc_cmd;      /* ioctl command type */
cred_t      *ioc_cr;      /* full credentials */
uint_t      ioc_id;       /* ioctl id */
uint_t      ioc_flag;     /* ioctl flags */
uint_t      ioc_count;    /* count of bytes in data field */
int         ioc_rval;     /* return value */
int         ioc_error;    /* error code */
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
