'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MODLSTRMOD 9S "Jun 7, 1993"
.SH NAME
modlstrmod \- linkage structure for loadable STREAMS modules
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/modctl.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodlstrmod\fR structure is used by STREAMS modules to export module
specific information to the kernel.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct mod_ops     *strmod_modops;
char               *strmod_linkinfo;
struct fmodsw      *strmod_fmodsw;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstrmod_modops\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Must always be initialized to the address of \fBmod_strmodops\fR. This
identifies the module as a loadable STREAMS module.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstrmod_linkinfo\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Can be any string up to \fBMODMAXNAMELEN\fR, and is used to describe the
module. This string is usually the name of the module, but can contain other
information (such as a version number).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstrmod_fmodsw\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Is a pointer to a template of a class entry within the module that is copied to
the kernel's class table when the module is loaded.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmodload\fR(1M)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
