'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2000, Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MODLINKAGE 9S "Sep 18, 1992"
.SH NAME
modlinkage \- module linkage structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/modctl.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodlinkage\fR structure is provided by the module writer to the routines
that install, remove, and retrieve information from a module. See
\fB_init\fR(9E), \fB_fini\fR(9E), and \fB_info\fR(9E).
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
int    ml_rev
void   *ml_linkage[4];
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBml_rev\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Is the revision of the loadable modules system.  This must have the value
\fBMODREV_1\fR .
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBml_linkage\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Is a null-terminated array of pointers to linkage structures. Driver modules
have only one linkage structure.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fB_fini\fR(9E), \fB_info\fR(9E), \fB_init\fR(9E),
\fBmodldrv\fR(9S), \fBmodlstrmod\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
