'\" te
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MODLDRV 9S "Mar 5, 2001"
.SH NAME
modldrv \- linkage structure for loadable drivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/modctl.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBmodldrv\fR structure is used by device drivers to export driver specific
information to the kernel.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct mod_ops    *drv_modops;
char              *drv_linkinfo;
struct dev_ops    *drv_dev_ops;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdrv_modops\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Must always be initialized to the address of \fBmod_driverops\fR. This member
identifies the module as a loadable driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdrv_linkinfo\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Can be any string up to \fBMODMAXNAMELEN\fR characters (including the
terminating NULL character), and is used to describe the module and its version
number. This is usually the name of the driver and module version information,
but can contain other information as well.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdrv_dev_ops\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Pointer to the driver's \fBdev_ops\fR(9S) structure.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBdev_ops\fR(9S), \fBmodlinkage\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
