'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\"  Copyright (c) 2012 Joyent, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NET_INSTANCE_T 9S "Mar 5, 2012"
.SH NAME
net_instance_t \- packet event structure passed through to hooks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/neti.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBnet_instance_t\fR data structure defines a collection of instances to be
called when relevant events happen within \fBIP\fR. The value returned by the
\fBnin_create()\fR function is stored internally and passed back to both the
\fBnin_destroy()\fR and \fBnin_shutdown()\fR functions as the second argument.
The \fBnetid_t\fR passed through to each function can be used to uniquely
identify each instance of \fBIP\fR.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    char    *nin_name;
     void    *(*nin_create)(const netid_t);
     void    (*nin_destroy)(const netid_t, void *);
     void    (*nin_shutdown)(const netid_t, void *);
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnin_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Name of the owner of the instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnin_create\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Function to be called when a new instance of \fBIP\fR is created. It may not
return \fBNULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnin_destroy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Function to be called when an instance of \fBIP\fR is being destroyed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnin_shutdown\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Function to be called when an instance of \fBIP\fR is being shutdown.
\fBnin_shutdown()\fR is called before \fBnin_destroy()\fR is called.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnetinfo\fR(9F), \fBattributes\fR(5)
