'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc. , All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_INQUIRY 9S "Nov 5, 2008"
.SH NAME
scsi_inquiry \- SCSI inquiry structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_inquiry\fR structure contains 36 required bytes, followed by a
variable number of vendor-specific parameters. Bytes 59 through 95, if
returned, are reserved for future standardization. This structure is part of
\fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure and typically filled in by
\fBscsi_probe\fR(9F).
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Lines that start with an 'X' will be deleted before submission;
they are being classified as unstable at this time.

uchar_t  inq_dtype;         /* Periph. qualifier, dev. type */
uchar_t  inq_rmb      :1;   /* Removable media */
uchar_t  inq_qual     :7;   /* Dev. type qualifier */
uchar_t  inq_iso      :2;   /* ISO version */
uchar_t  inq_ecma     :3;   /* EMCA version */
uchar_t  inq_ansi     :3;   /* ANSII version */
uchar_t  inq_aenc     :1;   /* Async event notif. cap. */
uchar_t  inq_trmiop   :1;   /* Supports TERMINATE I/O PROC msg */
uchar_t  inq_normaca  :1;   /* setting NACA bit supported */
uchar_t  inq_hisup    :1;   /* hierarchical addressing model */
uchar_t  inq_rdf      :4;   /* Response data format */
uchar_t  inq_len            /* Additional length */
uchar_t  inq_sccs     :1;   /* embedded storage array */
Xuchar_t inq_acc      :1;   /* access controls coordinator */
uchar_t  inq_tpgse    :1;   /* explicit asymmetric lun access */
uchar_t  inq_tpgsi    :1;   /* implicit asymmetric lun access */
Xuchar_t inq_3pc      :1;   /* third-party copy */
Xuchar_t inq_protect  :1;   /* supports protection information */
uchar_t  inq_bque     :1;   /* basic queueing */
uchar_t  inq_encserv  :1;   /* embedded enclosure services */
uchar_t  inq_dualp    :1;   /* dual port device */
uchar_t  inq_mchngr   :1;   /* embedded/attached to medium chngr */
uchar_t  inq_addr16   :1;   /* SPI: supports 16 bit wide SCSI addr */
uchar_t  inq_wbus16   :1;   /* SPI: Supports 16 bit wide data xfers */
uchar_t  inq_sync     :1;   /* SPI: Supports synchronous data xfers */
uchar_t  inq_linked   :1;   /* Supports linked commands */
uchar_t  inq_cmd_que  :1;   /* Supports command queueing */
uchar_t  inq_sftre    :1;   /* Supports Soft Reset option */
char     inq_vid[8];        /* Vendor ID */
char     inq_pid[16];       /* Product ID */
char     inq_revision[4];   /* Revision level */
uchar_t  inq_clk      :2;   /* SPI3 clocking */
uchar_t  inq_qas      :1;   /* SPI3: quick arb sel */
uchar_t  inq_ius      :1;   /* SPI3: information units */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
\fBinq_dtype\fR identifies the type of device. Bits 0 - 4 represent the
Peripheral Device Type and bits 5 - 7 represent the Peripheral Qualifier. The
following values are appropriate for Peripheral Device Type field:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_DIRECT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Direct-access device (for example, magnetic disk).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_SEQUENTIAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Sequential-access device (for example, magnetic tape).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_PRINTER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Printer device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_PROCESSOR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Processor device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_WORM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Write-once device (for example, some optical disks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_RODIRECT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
CD-ROM device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_SCANNER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Scanner device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_OPTICAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Optical memory device (for example, some optical disks).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_CHANGER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Medium Changer device (for example, jukeboxes).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_COMM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Communications device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_ARRAY_CTRL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Array controller device (for example, \fBRAID\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_ESI\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Enclosure services device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_RBC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Simplified direct-access device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_OCRW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Optical card reader/writer device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_BRIDGE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Bridge.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_OSD\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Object-based storage device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_UNKNOWN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Unknown or no device type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDTYPE_MASK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Mask to isolate Peripheral Device Type field.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The following values are appropriate for the Peripheral Qualifier field:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDPQ_POSSIBLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The specified peripheral device type is currently connected to this logical
unit. If the target cannot determine whether or not a physical device is
currently connected, it uses this peripheral qualifier when returning the
\fBINQUIRY\fR data. This peripheral qualifier does not imply that the device is
ready for access by the initiator.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDPQ_SUPPORTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The target is capable of supporting the specified peripheral device type on
this logical unit. However, the physical device is not currently connected to
this logical unit.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDPQ_NEVER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The target is not capable of supporting a physical device on this logical unit.
For this peripheral qualifier, the peripheral device type shall be set to
\fBDTYPE_UNKNOWN\fR to provide compatibility with previous versions of
\fBSCSI\fR. For all other peripheral device type values, this peripheral
qualifier is reserved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDPQ_VUNIQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
This is a vendor-unique qualifier.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDPQ_MASK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Mask to isolate Peripheral Qualifier field.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBDTYPE_NOTPRESENT\fR is the peripheral qualifier \fBDPQ_NEVER\fR and the
peripheral device type \fBDTYPE_UNKNOWN\fR combined.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_rmb\fR, if set, indicates that the medium is removable.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_qual\fR is a device type qualifier.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_iso\fR indicates \fBISO \fRversion.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_ecma\fR indicates \fBECMA \fRversion.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_ansi\fR indicates \fBANSI \fRversion.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_aenc\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports asynchronous event
notification capability as defined in \fBSCSI-2 \fRspecification.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_trmiop\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports the \fBTERMINATE
I/O PROCESS\fRmessage.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_normaca\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports setting the
\fBNACA\fR bit to 1 in \fBCDB\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_hisip\fR, if set, indicates the \fBSCSI\fR target device uses the
hierarchical addressing model to assign \fBLUN\fRs to logical units.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_rdf\fR, if set, indicates the \fBINQUIRY\fR data response data format:
"\fBRDF_LEVEL0\fR" means that this structure complies with the \fBSCSI-1\fR
spec, "\fBRDF_CCS\fR" means that this structure complies with the \fBCCS\fR
pseudo-spec, and "\fBRDF_SCSI2\fR" means that the structure complies with the
\fBSCSI-2\fR/3 spec.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_len\fR, if set, is the additional length field that specifies the length
in bytes of the parameters.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_sccs\fR, if set, indicates the target device contains an embedded
storage array controller component.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_acc\fR, if set, indicates that the logical unit contains an access
controls coordinator (this structure member will be deleted before submission.
It is being classified as unstable at this time).
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_tpgse\fR, if set, indicates that implicit asymmetric logical unit access
is supported.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_tpgsi\fR, if set, indicates that explicit asymmetric logical unit access
is supported.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_3pc\fR, if set, indicates that the \fBSCSI\fR target device supports
third-party copy commands (this structure member will be deleted before
submission. It is being classified as unstable at this time).
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_protect\fR, if set, indicates that the logical unit supports protection
information (this structure member will be deleted before submission. It is
being classified as unstable at this time).
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_bque\fR, if set, indicates that the logical unit supports basic task
management.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_encserv\fR, if set, indicates that the device contains an embedded
enclosure services component (\fBses\fR(7D)).
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_dualp\fR, if set, indicates that the \fBSCSI\fR target device supports
two or more ports.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_mchngr\fR, if set, indicates that the \fBSCSI\fR target device supports
commands to control an attached media changer.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_addr16\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports 16-bit wide
\fBSCSI\fR addresses.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_wbus16\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports 16-bit wide data
transfers.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_sync\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports synchronous data
transfers.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_linked\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports linked commands
for this logical unit.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_cmdque\fR, if set, indicates that the device supports tagged command
queueing.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_sftre\fR, if reset, indicates that the device responds to the
\fBRESET\fR condition with the hard \fBRESET\fR alternative. If this bit is
set, this indicates that the device responds with the soft \fBRESET\fR
alternative.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_vid\fR contains eight bytes of \fBASCII \fRdata identifying the vendor
of the product.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_pid\fR contains sixteen bytes of \fBASCII \fRdata as defined by the
vendor.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_revision\fR contains four bytes of \fBASCII \fRdata as defined by the
vendor.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_clk\fR clocking of the \fBSPI3\fR target port.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_gas\fR the \fBSPI3\fR target port supports quick arbitration and
selection.
.sp
.LP
\fBinq_ius\fR the \fBSPI3\fR target device supports information unit transfers.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_probe\fR(9F), \fBscsi_device\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI SCSI Primary Commands-3 (SPC-3)\fR
.sp
.LP
http://t10.org/drafts.htm#spc3
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
