'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_ASC_KEY_STRINGS 9S "Feb 24, 1998"
.SH NAME
scsi_asc_key_strings \- SCSI ASC ASCQ to message structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
 Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBscsi_asc_key_strings\fR structure stores the ASC and ASCQ codes and a
pointer to the related ASCII string.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
ushort_t asc;           /* ASC code */
ushort_t ascq;          /* ASCQ code */
char    *message;       /* ASCII message string */

asc               Contains the ASC key code.

ascq              Contains the ASCQ code.

message           Points to the NULL terminated ASCII string
                  describing the asc and ascq condition
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBscsi_vu_errmsg\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIANSI Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2)\fR
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
