'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2006 Sun Microsystems, Inc.,  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SCSI_HBA_TRAN 9S "May 30, 2006"
.SH NAME
scsi_hba_tran \- SCSI Host Bus Adapter (HBA) driver transport vector structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A \fBscsi_hba_tran_t\fR structure defines vectors that an \fBHBA\fR driver
exports to \fBSCSA\fR interfaces so that \fBHBA\fR specific functions can be
executed.
.SH STRUCTURE MEMBERS
.sp
.in +2
.nf
dev_info_t          *tran_hba_dip;          /* HBAs dev_info
                                                pointer */
void                *tran_hba_private;      /* HBA softstate */
void                *tran_tgt_private;      /* HBA target private
                                                pointer */
struct scsi_device  *tran_sd;               /* scsi_device */
int                 (*tran_tgt_init)( );    /* Transport target */
                                                Initialization */
int                 (*tran_tgt_probe)( );   /* Transport target
                                                probe */
void                (*tran_tgt_free)( );    /* Transport target
                                                free */
int                 (*tran_start)( );       /* Transport start */
int                 (*tran_reset)( );       /* Transport reset */
int                 (*tran_abort)( );       /* Transport abort */
int                 (*tran_getcap)( );      /* Capability
                                                retrieval */
int                 (*tran_setcap)( );      /* Capability
                                                establishment */
struct scsi_pkt     *(*tran_init_pkt)( );   /* Packet and DMA
                                                allocation */
void                (*tran_destroy_pkt)( ); /* Packet and DMA */
                                                deallocation */
void                (*tran_dmafree)( );     /* DMA deallocation */
void                (*tran_sync_pkt)( );    /* Sync DMA */
void                (*tran_reset_notify)( );/* Bus reset
                                                notification */
int                 (*tran_bus_reset)( );   /* Reset bus only */
int                 (*tran_quiesce)( );     /* Quiesce a bus */
int                 (*tran_unquiesce)( );   /* Unquiesce a bus */
int                 (*tran_setup_pkt)( );   /* Initialization
                                                for pkt */
int                 (*tran_teardown_pkt)( );/* Deallocation */
int                 (*tran_pkt_constructor) ( );
                                               /* Constructor */
int                 (*tran_pkt_destructor) ( );
                                              /* Destructor */
int                 tran_hba_len;            /* # bytes for
                                                 pkt_ha_private */
int                 tran_interconnect_type;  /* transport
                                                 interconnect */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_hba_dip\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
\fBdev_info\fR pointer to the \fBHBA\fR that supplies the \fBscsi_hba_tran\fR
structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_hba_private\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Private pointer that the \fBHBA\fR driver can use to refer to the device's soft
state structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_tgt_private\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Private pointer that the \fBHBA\fR can use to refer to per-target specific
data. This field can only be used when the \fBSCSI_HBA_TRAN_CLONE\fR flag is
specified in \fBscsi_hba_attach\fR(9F). In this case, the \fBHBA\fR driver must
initialize this field in its \fBtran_tgt_init\fR(9E) entry point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_sd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Pointer to \fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure if cloning; otherwise \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_tgt_init\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that allows per-target \fBHBA\fR initialization, if necessary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_tgt_probe\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that allows per-target \fBscsi_probe\fR(9F) customization, if
necessary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_tgt_free\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that allows per-target \fBHBA\fR deallocation, if necessary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_start\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that starts a \fBSCSI\fR command execution on the \fBHBA\fR
hardware.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_reset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that resets a \fBSCSI\fR bus or target device.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_abort\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that aborts one \fBSCSI\fR command, or all pending \fBSCSI\fR
commands.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_getcap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that retrieves a \fBSCSI\fR capability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_setcap\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that sets a \fBSCSI\fR capability.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_init_pkt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that allocates a \fBscsi_pkt\fR structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_destroy_pkt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that frees a \fBscsi_pkt\fR structure allocated by
\fBtran_init_pkt\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_dmafree\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that frees \fBDMA\fR resources that were previously allocated by
\fBtran_init_pkt\fR. Not called for \fBHBA\fR drivers that provide a
\fBtran_setup_pkt\fR entry point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_sync_pkt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Synchronizes data in \fIpkt\fR after a data transfer has been completed. Not
called for \fBHBA\fR drivers that provide a \fBtran_setup_pkt\fR entry point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_reset_notify\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that allows a target to register a bus reset notification
request with the \fBHBA\fR driver.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_bus_reset\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that resets the \fBSCSI\fR bus without resetting targets.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_quiesce\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that waits for all outstanding commands to complete and blocks
(or queues) any \fBI/O\fR requests issued.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_unquiesce\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Function entry that allows \fBI/O\fR activities to resume on the \fBSCSI\fR
bus.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_setup_pkt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Optional entry point that initializes a \fBscsi_pkt\fR structure. See
\fBtran_setup_pkt\fR(9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_teardown_pkt\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Entry point that releases resources allocated by \fBtran_setup_pkt\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_pkt_constructor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Additional optional entry point that performs the actions of a constructor. See
\fBtran_setup_pkt\fR(9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_pkt_destructor\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Additional optional entry point that performs the actions of a destructor. See
\fBtran_setup_pkt\fR(9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_hba_len\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Size of \fBpkt_ha_private\fR. See \fBtran_setup_pkt\fR(9E).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtran_interconnect_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 26n
Integer value that denotes the interconnect type of the transport as defined in
the \fBservices.h\fR header file.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBtran_abort\fR(9E), \fBtran_bus_reset\fR(9E), \fBtran_destroy_pkt\fR(9E),
\fBtran_dmafree\fR(9E), \fBtran_getcap\fR(9E), \fBtran_init_pkt\fR(9E),
\fBtran_quiesce\fR(9E), \fBtran_reset\fR(9E), \fBtran_reset_notify\fR(9E),
\fBtran_setcap\fR(9E), \fBtran_setup_pkt\fR(9E), \fBtran_start\fR(9E),
\fBtran_sync_pkt\fR(9E), \fBtran_tgt_free\fR(9E), \fBtran_tgt_init\fR(9E),
\fBtran_tgt_probe\fR(9E), \fBtran_unquiesce\fR(9E), \fBddi_dma_sync\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_hba_attach\fR(9F), \fBscsi_hba_pkt_alloc\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_hba_pkt_free\fR(9F), \fBscsi_probe\fR(9F), \fBscsi_device\fR(9S),
\fBscsi_pkt\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
