'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc., All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH USB_REQUEST_ATTRIBUTES 9S "Jan 5, 2004"
.SH NAME
usb_request_attributes \- Definition of USB request attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include  <sys/usb/usba.h>
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Solaris DDI specific (Solaris DDI)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Request attributes specify how the USBA framework handles request execution.
Request attributes are specified in the request's *_attributes field and belong
to the enumerated type usb_req_attrs_t.
.sp
.LP
Supported request attributes are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_ATTRS_SHORT_XFER_OK\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Use this attribute when the  maximum transfer  size is known,  but it is
possible for the request to receive a smaller amount of data. This attribute
tells the USBA framework to accept  without error transfers which are shorter
than expected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_ATTRS_PIPE_RESET\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Have the USB framework reset the pipe automatically if an error     occurs
during the transfer. Do not attempt to clear any stall. The USB_CB_RESET_PIPE
callback flag is passed to the client driver's exception handler to show the
pipe has been reset. Pending requests on pipes which are reset are flushed
unless the pipe is the default pipe.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_ATTRS_AUTOCLEARING\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Have the USB framework reset the pipe and clear functional stalls automatically
if an error occurs during the transfer. The callback flags passed to the client
driver's exception handler show the status after the attempt to clear the
stall.
.sp
USB_CB_FUNCTIONAL_STALL is set in the callback flags to indicate that a
functional stall occurred. USB_CB_STALL_CLEARED is also set if the stall is
cleared. The default pipe never shows a functional stall if the
USB_ATTRS_AUTOCLEARING attribute is set. If USB_CB_FUNCTIONAL_STALL is seen
when autoclearing is enabled, the device has a fatal error.
.sp
USB_CB_PROTOCOL_STALL is set without USB_CB_STALL_CLEARED in the callback flags
to indicate that a protocol stall was seen but was not explicitly cleared.
Protocol stalls are cleared automatically when a subsequent command is issued.
.sp
Autoclearing a stalled default pipe is not allowed. The USB_CB_PROTOCOL_STALL
callback flag is set in the callback flags to indicate the default pipe is
stalled.
.sp
Autoclearing is not allowed when the request is USB_REQ_GET_STATUS on the
default pipe.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_ATTRS_ONE_XFER\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Applies only to interrupt-IN requests. Without this flag, interrupt-IN requests
start periodic polling of the interrupt pipe. This flag specifies to perform
only a single transfer.  Do not start periodic transfers with this request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_ATTRS_ISOC_START_FRAME\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Applies only to isochronous requests and specifies that a request be started at
a given frame number. The starting frame number is provided in the
isoc_frame_no field of the usb_isoc_req_t. Please see
\fBusb_isoc_request\fR(9S) for more information about isochronous requests.
.sp
USB_ATTRS_ISOC_START_FRAME can be used to delay a transfer by a few frames,
allowing transfers to an endpoint to sync up with another source.  (For
example, synching up audio endpoints to a video source.) The number of a
suitable starting frame in the near future can be found by adding an offset
number of frames (usually between four and ten) to the current frame number
returned from \fBusb_get_current_frame_number\fR(9F). Note that requests with
starting frames which have passed are rejected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBUSB_ATTRS_ISOC_XFER_ASAP\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Applies only to isochronous requests and specifies that a request start as soon
as possible. The host controller driver picks a starting frame number which
immediately follows the last frame of the last queued request. The
isoc_frame_no of the usb_isoc_req_t is ignored. Please see
\fBusb_isoc_request\fR(9S) for more information about isochronous requests.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.in +2
.nf
    /*
     * Allocate, initialize and issue a synchronous bulk-IN request.
     * Allow for short transfers.
     */

    struct buf *bp;
    usb_bulk_req_t bulk_req;
    mblk_t *mblk;

    bulk_req = usb_alloc_bulk_req(dip, bp->b_bcount, USB_FLAGS_SLEEP);

    bulk_req->bulk_attributes =
        USB_ATTRS_AUTOCLEARING | USB_ATTRS_SHORT_XFER_OK;

    if ((rval = usb_pipe_bulk_xfer(pipe, bulk_req, USB_FLAGS_SLEEP)) !=
        USB_SUCCESS) {
            cmn_err (CE_WARN, "%s%d: Error reading bulk data.",
                ddi_driver_name(dip), ddi_get_instance(dip));
    }

    mblk = bulk_req->bulk_data;
    bcopy(mblk->rptr, buf->b_un.b_addr, mblk->wptr - mblk->rptr);
    bp->b_resid = bp->b_count - (mblk->wptr = mblk->rptr);
    ...
    ...

    ----

    usb_pipe_handle_t handle;
    usb_frame_number_t offset = 10;
    usb_isoc_req_t *isoc_req;

    isoc_req = usb_alloc_isoc_req(...);
      ...
      ...
    isoc_req->isoc_frame_no = usb_get_current_frame_number(dip) + offset;
    isoc_req->isoc_attributes = USB_ATTRS_ISOC_START_FRAME;
      ...
      ...
    if (usb_pipe_isoc_xfer(handle, isoc_req, 0) != USB_SUCCESS) {
      ...
    }
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	PCI-based systems
_
Interface stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBusb_alloc_request\fR(9F), \fBusb_get_current_frame_number\fR(9F),
\fBusb_pipe_bulk_xfer\fR(9F), \fBusb_pipe_ctrl_xfer\fR(9F),
\fBusb_pipe_intr_xfer\fR(9F), \fBusb_pipe_isoc_xfer\fR(9F),
\fBusb_bulk_request\fR(9S), \fBusb_callback_flags\fR(9S),
\fBusb_ctrl_request\fR(9S), \fBusb_intr_request\fR(9S),
\fBusb_isoc_request\fR(9S), \fBusb_completion_reason\fR(9S)
