.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Sep 20, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_REGISTER_ARGS 9S
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hcdi_register_args ,
.Nm usba_hcdi_register_args_t
.Nd USB HCD driver registeration
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hcdi.h
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private
.Pp
This is a private data structure that is not part of the stable DDI. It
may be removed or changed at any time.
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_args_t
structure is used by USB HCD device drivers to register with the USBA
framework.
.Pp
The structure is used with the
.Xr usba_hcdi_register 9F
function. Device drivers may statically allocate this structure on the
stack. It does not need to be allocated on the heap or used beyond the
call to
.Xr usba_hcdi_register 9F .
.Pp
For more information on the HCD device driver initialization process,
see
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E .
.Sh STRUCTURE MEMBERS
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_args_t
structure has the following members:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
uint_t			usba_hcdi_register_version;
dev_info_t		*usba_hcdi_register_dip;
usba_hcdi_ops_t		*usba_hcdi_register_ops;
ddi_dma_attr_t		*usba_hcdi_register_dma_attr;
ddi_iblock_cookie_t	usba_hcdi_register_iblock_cookie;
.Ed
.Pp
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_version
function should be set to the value of the pre-processor macro
.Sy HCDI_REGISTER_VERSION .
This ensures that if future revisions to this structure are made,
existing drivers should continue to function. Note, that this structure
is
.Sy Volatile .
Support for older versions or drastic changes may occur at any time and
this should not be relied on nor construed as a guarantee against such
changes.
.Pp
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_dip
should be set to the
.Sy dev_info_t
of the device driver instance that is registering with the USBA.
.Pp
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_ops
member is a structure of entry points for the USBA framework to call
into the USB framework. It should be allocated with a call to
.Xr usba_alloc_hcdi_ops 9F
and released with a call to
.Xr usba_free_hcdi_ops 9F ,
after the drive has called
.Xr usba_hcdi_register 9F .
.Pp
Please see
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops 9S
for more information on the members of the structure and for more
information on how they should be filled in.
.Pp
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_dma_attr
member should be a pointer to a set of DMA attributes. These DMA
attributes will be used by a subset of client device drivers to perform
allocations, in particular scsa2usb. In general, try to make sure that
these DMA attributes are valid for more transforms, though these will
generally be used for bulk transfers.
.Pp
The
.Sy usba_hcdi_register_iblock_cookie
members should be filed in with the general interrupt priority of the
device driver after it has allocated interrupts. Device drivers may
obtain the priority by calling
.Xr ddi_intr_get_pri 9F
and then casting the obtained interrupt priority to the
.Sy ddi_iblock_cookie_t .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr ddi_intr_get_pri 9F ,
.Xr usba_alloc_hcdi_ops 9F ,
.Xr usba_free_hcdi_ops 9F ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_register 9F ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_ops 9S
