'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH COMPVER 4 "Oct 4, 1996"
.SH NAME
compver \- compatible versions file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBcompver\fR is an \fBASCII\fR file used to specify previous versions of the
associated package which are upward compatible. It is created by a package
developer.
.sp
.LP
Each line of the file specifies a previous version of the associated package
with which the current version is backward compatible.
.sp
.LP
Since some packages may require installation of a specific version of another
software package, compatibility information is extremely crucial. Consider, for
example, a package called "A" which requires version "1.0" of application "B"
as a prerequisite for installation. If the customer installing "A" has a newer
version of "B" (version 1.3), the \fBcompver\fR file for "B" must indicate that
"1.3" is compatible with version "1.0" in order for the customer to install
package "A".
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRSample \fBcompver\fR file.
.sp
.LP
A sample \fBcompver\fR file is shown below:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBVersion 1.3
Version 1.0\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBpkginfo\fR(4)
.sp
.LP
\fIApplication Packaging Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The comparison of the version string disregards white space and tabs. It is
performed on a word-by-word basis. Thus, "Version 1.3" and "Version 1.3" would
be considered the same.
.sp
.LP
The entries in the \fBcompver\fR file must match the values assigned to the
\fBVERSION\fR parameter in the \fBpkginfo\fR(4) files.
