'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DEVICE_ALLOCATE 4 "Mar 6, 2017"
.SH NAME
device_allocate \- device_allocate file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/security/device_allocate\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdevice_allocate\fR file is an \fBASCII\fR file that resides in the
\fB/etc/security\fR directory. It contains mandatory access control information
about each physical device. Each device is represented by a one- line entry of
the form:
.sp
.LP
\fIdevice-name\fR;\fIdevice-type\fR;reserved1;reserved2;\fIauths\fR;\fIdevice-e
xec\fR
.sp
.LP
where:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdevice-name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents an arbitrary \fBASCII\fR string naming the physical device. This
field contains no embedded white space or non-printable characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdevice-type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents an arbitrary \fBASCII\fR string naming the generic device type. This
field identifies and groups together devices of like type. This field contains
no embedded white space or non-printable characters. The following types of
devices are currently managed by the system: audio, \fBsr\fR (represents CDROM
drives), \fBfd\fR (represents floppy drives), \fBst\fR (represents tape
drives), \fBrmdisk\fR (removable media devices).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreserved1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
On systems configured with Trusted Extensions, this field stores a
colon-separated (\fB:\fR) list of key-value pairs that describe device
allocation attributes used in Trusted Extensions. Zero or more keys can be
specified. The following keys are currently interpreted by Trusted Extensions
systems:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBminlabel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the minimum label at which device can be allocated. Default value is
\fBadmin_low\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmaxlabel\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum label at which device can be allocated. Default value is
\fBadmin_high\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBzone\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the name of the zone in which device is currently allocated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBclass\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies  a  logical grouping of devices. For example, all Sun Ray devices of
all device types. There is no default  class.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdpy\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the X display name. This is used to identify devices associated with
that X session. There is no default \fBxdpy\fR value.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBreserved2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents a field reserved for future use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIauths\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Represents a field that contains a comma-separated list of authorizations
required to allocate the device, an asterisk (\fB*\fR) to indicate that the
device is \fInot\fR allocatable, or an '\fB@\fR' symbol to indicate that no
explicit authorization is needed to allocate the device. The default
authorization is \fBsolaris.device.allocate\fR. See \fBauths\fR(1).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdevice-exec\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The physical device's data clean program to be run any time the device is acted
on by \fBallocate\fR(1). This ensures that unmanaged data does not remain in
the physical device between uses. This field contains the filename of a program
in \fB/etc/security/lib\fR or the full pathname of a cleanup script provided by
the system administrator.
.RE

.SS "Notes on \fBdevice_allocate\fR"
.LP
The \fBdevice_allocate\fR file is an ASCII file that resides in the
\fB/etc/security\fR directory.
.sp
.LP
Lines in \fBdevice_allocate\fR can end with a `\fB\e\fR\&' to continue an entry
on the next line.
.sp
.LP
Comments can also be included. A `\fB#\fR' makes a comment of all further text
until the next NEWLINE not immediately preceded by a `\fB\e\fR\&'.
.sp
.LP
White space is allowed in any field.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdevice_allocate\fR file must be created by the system administrator
before device allocation is enabled.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdevice_allocate\fR file is owned by root, with a group of \fBsys\fR, and
a mode of 0644.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDeclaring an Allocatable Device
.sp
.LP
Declare that physical device \fBst0\fR is a type \fBst\fR. \fBst\fR is
allocatable, and the script used to clean the device after running
\fBdeallocate\fR(1) is named \fB/etc/security/lib/st_clean\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# scsi tape
st0;\e
     st;\e
     reserved;\e
     reserved;\e
     solaris.device.allocate;\e
     /etc/security/lib/st_clean
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRDeclaring an Allocatable Device with Authorizations
.sp
.LP
Declare that physical device \fBfd0\fR is of type \fBfd\fR. \fBfd\fR is
allocatable by users with the \fBsolaris.device.allocate\fR authorization, and
the script used to clean the device after running \fBdeallocate\fR(1) is named
\fB/etc/security/lib/fd_clean\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
# floppy drive
fd0;\e
     fd;\e
     reserved;\e
     reserved;\e
     solaris.device.allocate;\e
     /etc/security/lib/fd_clean
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Making a device allocatable means that you need to allocate and deallocate it
to use it (with \fBallocate\fR(1) and \fBdeallocate\fR(1)). If a device is not
allocatable, there is an asterisk (\fB*\fR) in the \fIauths\fR field, and no
one can use the device.
.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/security/device_allocate\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Contains list of allocatable devices
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBauths\fR(1), \fBallocate\fR(1), \fBdeallocate\fR(1),
\fBlist_devices\fR(1), \fBauth_attr\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
On systems configured with Trusted Extensions, the functionality is enabled by
default. On such systems, the \fBdevice_allocate\fR file is updated
automatically by the system.
