'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DRIVER.CONF 4 "Jan 5, 2007"
.SH NAME
driver.conf \- driver configuration files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBdriver.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Driver configuration files provide values for device properties. The values
override values provided by the devices themselves. Most modern devices provide
enough property values to make a driver configuration file unnecessary.
.sp
.LP
The system associates a driver with its configuration file by name. For
example, a driver in \fB/usr/kernel/drv\fR called \fBwombat\fR has the driver
configuration file \fBwombat.conf\fR, also stored in \fB/usr/kernel/drv\fR,
associated with it. On systems capable of support 64-bit drivers, the driver
configuration file should be placed in the directory in which the 32-bit driver
is (or would be) located, even if only a 64-bit version is provided. For
example, a 64-bit driver stored in \fB/usr/kernel/drv/sparcv9\fR stores its
driver configuration file in \fB/usr/kernel/drv\fR.
.sp
.LP
The value of the \fBname\fR property is the node name. In a \fBdriver.conf\fR
file, where the generic node name and \fBcompatible\fR property associated with
a self-identifying devices are typically not used, the node name must be a
binding name. The binding name is the name chosen by the system to bind a
driver to the device. The binding name is either an alias associated with the
driver established by \fBadd_drv\fR(1M) or the driver name itself.
.sp
.LP
The syntax of a single entry in a driver configuration file takes one of three
forms:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBname\fR="\fInode name\fR" \fBparent\fR="\fIparent name\fR" [\fIproperty-name=value\fR ...]\fB;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In this form, the parent name can be either the binding name of the parent
nexus driver or a specific full pathname, beginning with a slash (\fB/\fR)
character, identifying a specific instance of a parent bus. If a binding name
is used then all parent nodes bound to that driver match. A generic name (for
example, \fBpci\fR) is not a valid binding name even though it can appear in
the full pathname of all intended parents.
.sp
.LP
Alternatively, the parent can be specified by the type of interface it presents
to its children.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBname\fR="\fInode name\fR" \fBclass\fR="\fIclass name\fR" [\fIproperty-name=value\fR ...]\fB;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
For example, the driver for the \fBSCSI\fR host adapter can have different
names on different platforms, but the target drivers can use class \fBscsi\fR
to insulate themselves from these differences.
.sp
.LP
Entries of either form above correspond to a device information (\fBdevinfo\fR)
node in the kernel device tree. Each node has a \fIname\fR which is usually the
name of the driver, and a \fIparent\fR name which is the name of the parent
\fBdevinfo\fR node to which it will be connected. Any number of name-value
pairs can be specified to create properties on the prototype \fBdevinfo\fR
node. These properties can be retrieved using the DDI property interfaces (for
example, \fBddi_prop_get_int\fR(9F) and \fBddi_prop_lookup\fR(9F)). The
prototype \fBdevinfo\fR node specification must be terminated with a semicolon
(\fB;\fR).
.sp
.LP
The third form of an entry is simply a list of properties.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
[\fIproperty-name=value\fR ...]\fB;\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
A property created in this way is treated as global to the driver. It can be
overridden by a property with the same name on a particular \fBdevinfo\fR node,
either by creating one explicitly on the prototype node in the driver.conf file
or by the driver.
.sp
.LP
Items are separated by any number of newlines, \fBSPACE\fR or \fBTAB\fR
characters.
.sp
.LP
The configuration file can contain several entries to specify different device
configurations and parent nodes. The system can call the driver for each
possible prototype \fBdevinfo\fR node, and it is generally the responsibility
of the drivers \fBprobe\fR(9E) routine to determine if the hardware described
by the prototype \fBdevinfo\fR node is really present.
.sp
.LP
Property names must not violate the naming conventions for Open Boot PROM
properties or for IEEE 1275 names. In particular, property names should contain
only printable characters, and should not contain at-sign (\fB@\fR), slash
(\fB/\fR), backslash (\fB\\fR), colon (\fB:\fR), or square brackets (\fB[]\fR).
Property values can be decimal integers or strings delimited by double quotes
(\fB"\fR). Hexadecimal integers can be constructed by prefixing the digits with
\fB0x\fR.
.sp
.LP
A comma separated list of integers can be used to construct properties whose
value is an integer array. The value of such properties can be retrieved inside
the driver using \fBddi_prop_lookup_int_array\fR(9F).
.sp
.LP
Comments are specified by placing a \fB#\fR character at the beginning of the
comment string, the comment string extends for the rest of the line.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRConfiguration File for a PCI Bus Frame Buffer
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of a configuration file called
\fBACME,simple.conf\fR for a \fBPCI\fR bus frame buffer called
\fBACME,simple\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# Copyright (c) 1993, by ACME Fictitious Devices, Inc.
#
#ident  "@(#)ACME,simple.conf   1.3     1999/09/09"

name="ACME,simple" class="pci" unit-address="3,1"
        debug-mode=12;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This example creates a prototype \fBdevinfo\fR node called \fBACME,simple\fR
under all parent nodes of class \fBpci\fR. The node has device and function
numbers of 3 and 1, respectively; the property \fBdebug-mode\fR is provided for
all instances of the driver.

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRConfiguration File for a Pseudo Device Driver
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of a configuration file called
\fBACME,example.conf\fR for a pseudo device driver called \fBACME,example\fR.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# Copyright (c) 1993, ACME Fictitious Devices, Inc.
#
#ident  "@(#)ACME,example.conf  1.2   93/09/09"
name="ACME,example" parent="pseudo" instance=0
    debug-level=1;

name="ACME,example" parent="pseudo" instance=1;

whizzy-mode="on";
debug-level=3;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
This creates two \fBdevinfo\fR nodes called \fBACME,example\fR which attaches
below the \fBpseudo\fR node in the kernel device tree. The \fBinstance\fR
property is only interpreted by the \fBpseudo\fR node, see \fBpseudo\fR(4) for
further details. A property called \fBdebug-level\fR is created on the first
\fBdevinfo\fR node which has the value 1. The \fBexample\fR driver is able to
fetch the value of this property using \fBddi_prop_get_int\fR(9F).

.sp
.LP
Two global driver properties are created, \fBwhizzy-mode\fR (which has the
string value "on") and \fBdebug-level\fR (which has the value 3). If the driver
looks up the property \fBwhizzy-mode\fR on either node, it retrieves the value
of the global \fBwhizzy-mode\fR property ("on"). If the driver looks up the
\fBdebug-level\fR property on the first node, it retrieves the value of the
\fBdebug-level\fR property on that node (1). Looking up the same property on
the second node retrieves the value of the global \fBdebug-level\fR property
(3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBadd_drv\fR(1M), \fBpci\fR(4), \fBpseudo\fR(4), \fBsbus\fR(4), \fBscsi\fR(4),
\fBprobe\fR(9E), \fBddi_getlongprop\fR(9F), \fBddi_getprop\fR(9F),
\fBddi_getproplen\fR(9F), \fBddi_prop_get_int\fR(9F),
\fBddi_prop_lookup\fR(9F), \fBddi_prop_op\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
To avoid namespace collisions between multiple driver vendors, it is strongly
recommended that the \fIname\fR property of the driver should begin with a
vendor-unique string. A reasonably compact and unique choice is the vendor
over-the-counter stock symbol.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The \fBupdate_drv\fR(1M) command should be used to prompt the kernel to reread
\fBdriver.conf\fR files. Using \fBmodunload\fR(1M) to update \fBdriver.conf\fR
continues to work in release 9 of the Solaris operating environment, but the
behavior will change in a future release.
