'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FTPCONVERSIONS 4 "May 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
ftpconversions \- FTP Server conversions database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/ftpd/ftpconversions\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
When the FTP Server, \fBin.ftpd\fR(1M), receives the retrieve (\fBRETR\fR)
command, if the specified file does not exist, it looks for a conversion to
change an existing file or directory of the same base name into the format
requested, subject to the \fBftpaccess\fR(4) \fBcompress\fR and \fBtar\fR
capabilities.
.sp
.LP
The conversions  and their attributes known by \fBin.ftpd\fR(1M) are stored in
an \fBASCII\fR file of the following format. Each line in the file provides a
description for a single conversion. The fields in this file are separated by
colons (:).
.sp
.in +2
.nf
%s:%s:%s:%s:%s:%s:%s:%s
 1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The fields are described as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB1\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBStrip prefix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB2\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBStrip postfix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB3\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBAddon prefix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB4\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBAddon postfix\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB5\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBExternal command\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB6\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBTypes\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB7\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBOptions\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB8\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
\fBDescription\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBStrip prefix\fR and \fBAddon prefix\fR fields are not currently
supported.
.sp
.LP
The \fBStrip postfix\fR and \fBaddon postfix\fR fields are extensions to be
added to or removed from the requested \fBfilename\fR in attempting to produce
the name of an existing file or directory. When the attempt succeeds, the FTP
Server runs the external command associated with the conversion. The magic
cookie \fB%s\fR in the argument is passed to the command, replaced with the
name of the existing file or directory.
.sp
.LP
\fBExternal command\fR is the absolute pathname of a command to run followed by
the appropriate options to carry out the conversion. The standard output of the
command is sent back in response to the \fBRETR\fR (retrieve) command. For
anonymous and guest users to be able to execute the command, it must be present
in their \fBchroot'd\fR hierarchy along with any necessary dynamic libraries.
.sp
.LP
\fBTypes\fR specifies the conversion type. The following values are recognized:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT_ASCII\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
ASCII transfers are allowed of a file produced by the conversion.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB\fR\fBT_DIR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Directories can be converted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT_REG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Regular files can be converted.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fBOptions\fR are checked against the \fBftpaccess\fR(4) \fBcompress\fR and
\fBtar\fR capabilities and are recorded in the \fBspecial-action-flag\fR field
that is written to the FTP Server logfile. See \fBxferlog\fR(4). The following
options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBO_COMPRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
conversion compresses
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBO_TAR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
conversion archives
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBO_UNCOMPRESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
conversion uncompresses
.RE

.sp
.LP
You can specify more than one option by using "\fB|\fR" to separate options.
For example, \fBO_TAR|O_COMPRESS\fR specifies that the conversion archives and
compresses.
.sp
.LP
 \fBDescription\fR is a one word description of the conversion that is used in
error messages returned to the FTP client.
.sp
.LP
Lines that begin with a \fB#\fR sign are treated as comment lines and are
ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRCompressing a Regular File for Transfer
.sp
.LP
The following example specifies a conversion which generates \fBfilename.Z\fR
by compressing an existing file \fBfilename\fR. The conversion can only be
applied to regular files, not directories, and the absence of \fBT_ASCII\fR
prevents the resulting file from being transferred in ASCII mode.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
: : :.Z:/usr/bin/compress -c %s:T_REG:O_COMPRESS:COMPRESS
.fi
.in -2

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fR Uncompressing and Transferring in ASCII Mode
.sp
.LP
The following example specifies a conversion that takes \fBfilename.Z\fR and
uncompresses it to produce \fBfilename\fR, which then can be transferred in
ASCII mode.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
:.Z: : :/usr/bin/compress -cd %s:T_REG|T_ASCII:O_UNCOMPRESS:UNCOMPRESS
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ftpd/ftpconversions\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 28n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldd\fR(1), \fBin.ftpd\fR(1M), \fBftpaccess\fR(4), \fBxferlog\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
