'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH FTPGROUPS 4 "May 1, 2003"
.SH NAME
ftpgroups \- FTP Server enhanced group access file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/ftpd/ftpgroups\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBftpgroups\fR file contains the enhanced group access information.
.sp
.LP
After login, if the \fBftpaccess\fR(4) file includes \fIprivate\fR \fIyes\fR,
the user may use the \fBSITE GROUP\fR and \fBSITE GPASS\fR commands to specify
an enhanced access group and a password for that group. If the access group
name and password are valid, the FTP Server executes \fBsetuid\fR(2) to make
the user a member of the real group listed in the \fBftpgroups\fR file.
.sp
.LP
The format for the \fBftpgroups\fR file is:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
accessgroup:encrypted_password:real_group_name
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The fields are defined as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIaccessgroup\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
An arbitrary string of alphanumeric and punctuation characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIencrypted_password\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The group password encrypted exactly like in \fB/etc/shadow\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIreal_group_name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The name of a valid group returned by \fBgetgrnam\fR(3C).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBprivatepw\fR utility is an administrative tool to add, delete and list
enhanced access group information in the \fBftpgroups\fR file. See
\fBprivatepw\fR(1M). Lines that begin with a \fB#\fR sign are treated as
comment lines and are ignored.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ftpd/ftpgroups\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/ftpd/ftpaccess\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	External
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBin.ftpd\fR(1M), \fBprivatepw\fR(1M), \fBsetuid\fR(2), \fBgetgrnam\fR(3C),
\fBftpaccess\fR(4), \fBgroup\fR(4), \fBshadow\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
