'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T Copyright (c) 1985 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved. The Berkeley software License Agreement specifies the terms and conditions for redistribution.
.\" Copyright (C) 2004, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.TH INETD.CONF 4 "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
inetd.conf \- Internet servers database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/inet/inetd.conf\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/inetd.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
In the current release of the Solaris operating system, the \fBinetd.conf\fR
file is no longer directly used to configure \fBinetd\fR. The Solaris services
which were formerly configured using this file are now configured in the
Service Management Facility (see \fBsmf\fR(5)) using \fBinetadm\fR(1M). Any
records remaining in this file after installation or upgrade, or later created
by installing additional software, must be converted to \fBsmf\fR(5) services
and imported into the SMF repository using \fBinetconv\fR(1M), otherwise the
service will not be available.
.sp
.LP
For Solaris operating system releases prior to the current release (such as
Solaris 9), the \fBinetd.conf\fR file contains the list of servers that
\fBinetd\fR(1M) invokes when it receives an Internet request over a socket.
Each server entry is composed of a single line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIservice-name\fR \fIendpoint-type\fR \fIprotocol \fR\fIwait-status\fR \fIuid\fR \fIserver-program\fR \e
\fIserver-arguments\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
Fields are separated by either SPACE or TAB characters. A `\fB#\fR' (number
sign) indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the end of the
line are not interpreted by routines that search this file.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIservice-name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The name of a valid service listed in the \fBservices\fR file. For \fBRPC\fR
services, the value of the \fIservice-name\fR field consists of the \fBRPC\fR
service name or program number, followed by a '\fB/\fR' (slash) and either a
version number or a range of version numbers, for example, \fBrstatd/2-4\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIendpoint-type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Can be one of:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBstream\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
for a stream socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdgram\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
for a datagram socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBraw\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
for a raw socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBseqpacket\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
for a sequenced packet socket
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtli\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
for all \fBTLI\fR endpoints
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprotocol\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
A recognized protocol listed in the file \fB/etc/inet/protocols\fR. For servers
capable of supporting \fBTCP\fR and \fBUDP\fR over IPv6, the following protocol
types are also recognized:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBtcp6\fR
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBudp6\fR
.RE
\fB\fR\fBtcp6\fR and \fBudp6\fR are not official protocols; accordingly, they
are not listed in the \fB/etc/inet/protocols\fR file.
.sp
Here the \fBinetd\fR program uses an \fBAF_INET6\fR type socket endpoint. These
servers can also handle incoming IPv4 client requests in addition to IPv6
client requests.
.sp
For \fBRPC\fR services, the field consists of the string \fBrpc\fR followed by
a '/' (slash) and either a '*' (asterisk), one or more nettypes, one or more
netids, or a combination of nettypes and netids. Whatever the value, it is
first treated as a nettype. If it is not a valid nettype, then it is treated as
a netid. For example, \fBrpc/*\fR for an \fBRPC\fR service using all the
transports supported by the system (the list can be found in the
\fB/etc/netconfig\fR file), equivalent to saying \fBrpc/visible rpc/ticots\fR
for an \fBRPC\fR service using the Connection-Oriented Transport Service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIwait-status\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
This field has values \fBwait\fR or \fBnowait\fR. This entry specifies whether
the server that is invoked by \fBinetd\fR will take over the listening socket
associated with the service, and whether once launched, \fBinetd\fR will
\fBwait\fR for that server to exit, if ever, before it resumes listening for
new service requests. The \fIwait-status\fR for datagram servers must be set to
\fBwait\fR, as they are always invoked with the original datagram socket that
will participate in delivering the service bound to the specified service. They
do not have separate "listening" and "accepting" sockets. Accordingly, do not
configure \fBUDP\fR services as \fBnowait\fR. This causes a race condition by
which the \fBinetd\fR program selects on the socket and the server program
reads from the socket. Many server programs will be forked, and performance
will be severely compromised. Connection-oriented services such as \fBTCP\fR
stream services can be designed to be either \fBwait\fR or \fBnowait\fR status.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The user \fBID\fR under which the server should run. This allows servers to run
with access privileges other than those for root.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserver-program\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Either the pathname of a server program to be invoked by \fBinetd\fR to perform
the requested service, or the value \fBinternal\fR if \fBinetd\fR itself
provides the service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserver-arguments\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
If a server must be invoked with command line arguments, the entire command
line (including argument 0) must appear in this field (which consists of all
remaining words in the entry). If the server expects \fBinetd\fR to pass it the
address of its peer, for compatibility with 4.2BSD executable daemons, then the
first argument to the command should be specified as \fB%A\fR. No more than 20
arguments are allowed in this field. The \fB%A\fR argument is implemented only
for services whose \fIwait-status\fR value is \fBnowait\fR.
.RE

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/netconfig\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
network configuration file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/inet/protocols\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Internet protocols
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/inet/services\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
Internet network services
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBrlogin\fR(1), \fBrsh\fR(1), \fBin.tftpd\fR(1M), \fBinetadm\fR(1M),
\fBinetconv\fR(1M), \fBinetd\fR(1M), \fBservices\fR(4), \fBsmf\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.LP
\fB/etc/inet/inetd.conf\fR is the official SVR4 name of the \fBinetd.conf\fR
file. The symbolic link \fB/etc/inetd.conf\fR exists for \fBBSD\fR
compatibility.
.sp
.LP
This man page describes \fBinetd.conf\fR as it was supported in Solaris
operating system releases prior to the current release. The services that were
configured by means of \fBinetd.conf\fR are now configured in the Service
Management Facility (see \fBsmf\fR(5)) using \fBinetadm\fR(1M).
