'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1990, Regents of the University of Michigan.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH LDAPTEMPLATES.CONF 4 "Jul 9, 2003"
.SH NAME
ldaptemplates.conf \- configuration file for LDAP display template routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWconn/ldap/current/ldaptemplates.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBldaptemplates.conf\fR file contains information used by the LDAP display
routines.
.sp
.LP
Blank lines and lines that start with a hash character ('#') are treated as
comments and ignored. Non-comment lines contain one or more tokens. Tokens are
separated by white space, and double quotes can be used to include white space
inside a token.
.sp
.LP
The first non-commment line specifies the version of the template information
and must contain the token \fBVersion\fR followed by an integer version number.
For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
Version 1
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The current version is \fI1\fR, so the above example is always the correct
first line.
.sp
.LP
The remainder of the file consists of one or more display templates. The first
two lines of the display template each contain a single token that specifies
singular and plural names for the template in a user-friendly format. For
example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"Person"
"People"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
specifies appropriate names for a template designed to display person
information.
.sp
.LP
The next line specifies the name of the icon or similar element that is
associated with this template. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"person icon"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next line is a blank-separated list of template options. "" can be used if
no options are desired. Available options are: \fBaddable\fR (it is appropriate
to allow entries of this type to be added), \fBmodrdn\fR (it is appropriate to
offer the \fBmodify rdn\fR operation), \fBaltview\fR (this template is an
alternate view of another template). For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"addable" "modrdn"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next portion of the template is a list of X.500 object classes that is used
to determine whether the template should be used to display a given entry. The
object class information consists of one or more lines, followed by a
terminating line that contains the single token \fBEND\fR. Each line contains
one or more object class names, all of which must be present in a directory
entry. Multiple lines can be used to associate more than one set of object
classes with a given template. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
emailPerson
orgPerson
END
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
means that the template is appropriate for display of \fBemailPerson\fR entries
or \fBorgPerson\fR entries.
.sp
.LP
The next line after the object class list is the name of the attribute to
authenticate as to make changes (use "" if it is appropriate to authenticate as
the entry itself). For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"owner"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next line is the default attribute to use when naming a new entry, for
example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"cn"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next line is the distinguished name of the default location under which new
entries are created. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"o=XYZ, c=US"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The next section is a list of rules used to assign default values to new
entries. The list should be terminated with a line that contains the single
token \fBEND\fR. Each line in this section should either begin with the token
\fBconstant\fR and be followed by the name of the attribute and a constant
value to assign, or the line should begin with \fBaddersdn\fR followed by the
name of an attribute whose value will be the DN of the person who has
authenticated to add the entry. For example,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
constant	associatedDomain	XYZ.us
addersdn	seeAlso
END
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The last portion of the template is a list of items to display. It consists of
one or more lines, followed by a terminating line that contains the single
token \fBEND\fR. Each line is must begin with the token \fBsamerow\fR or the
token \fBitem\fR
.sp
.LP
It is assumed that each item appears on a row by itself unless it was preceded
by a \fBsamerow\fR line (in which case it should be displayed on the same line
as the previous item, if possible). Lines that begin with \fBsamerow\fR should
not have any other tokens on them.
.sp
.LP
Lines that begin with \fBitem\fR must have at least three more tokens on them:
an item type, a label, and an attribute name. Any extra tokens are taken as
extra arguments.
.sp
.LP
The item type token must be one of the following strings:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcis\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
case-ignore string attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmls\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
multiline string attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmail\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
RFC-822 conformant mail address attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
distinguished name pointer attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBbool\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Boolean attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBjpeg\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
JPEG photo attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBjpegbtn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
a button that will retrieve and show a JPEG photo attribute
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfax\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
FAX T.4 format image attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBfaxbtn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
a button that will retrieve and show a FAX photo attribute
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBaudiobtn\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
audio attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtime\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
UTC time attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdate\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
UTC time attributes where only the date portion should be shown
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBurl\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
labeled Uniform Resource Locator attributes
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsearchact\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
define an action that will do a directory search for other entries
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlinkact\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
define an action which is a link to another display template
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBprotected\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 14n
for an encrypted attribute, with values displayed as asterisks
.RE

.sp
.LP
An example of an item line for the drink attribute (displayed with label "Work
Phone"):
.sp
.in +2
.nf
item cis	"Work Phone"	telephoneNumber
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA Sample Configuration File Containing a Template that Displays
People Entries
.sp
.LP
The following template configuration file contains a templates for display of
people entries.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
    #
    # LDAP display templates
    #
    # Version must be 1 for now
    #
    Version 1
    #
    # Person template
    "Person"
    "People"

    # name of the icon that is associated with this template
    "person icon"

    # blank-separated list of template options ("" for none)
    "addable"

    #
    # objectclass list
    person
    END

    #
    # name of attribute to authenticate as ("" means auth as this entry)
    ""

    #
    # default attribute name to use when forming RDN of a new entry
    #
    "cn"

    #
    # default location when adding new entries (DN; "" means no default)
    "o=XYZ, c=US"

    #
    # rules used to define default values for new entries
    END

    #
    # list of items for display
    item jpegbtn	"View Photo"		jpegPhoto	"Next Photo"
    item audiobtn	"Play Sound"		audio
    item cis	"Also Known As"		cn
    item cis	"Title"			title
    item mls	"Work Address"		postalAddress
    item cis	"Work Phone"		telephoneNumber
    item cis	"Fax Number"		facsimileTelephoneNumber
    item mls	"Home Address"		homePostalAddress
    item cis	"Home Phone"		homePhone
    item cis	"User ID"		uid
    item mail	"E-Mail Address"	mail
    item cis	"Description"		description
    item dn		"See Also"		seeAlso
    END
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
Stability Level	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBldap_disptmpl\fR(3LDAP), \fBldap_entry2text\fR(3LDAP), \fBattributes\fR(5)
