'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Storage Networking Industry Association. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MPAPI.CONF 4 "Mar 15, 2006"
.SH NAME
mpapi.conf \- configuration file for libMPAPI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
/etc/mpapi.conf
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fB/etc/mpapi.conf\fR file is used to specify the vendor-provided plugin
library that is installed on the system. This file is used by the
\fBlibMPAPI\fR(3LIB) common library to load the individual plugin library when
its interface is called. If changes are made to the file while the library is
in use, the library should be unloaded and reloaded. Addition and removal of
the plugin library should be handled through \fBMP_RegisterPlugin\fR(3MPAPI)
and \fBMP_DeregisterPlugin\fR(3MPAPI).
.sp
.LP
Each plugin library entry is a single line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
"id"        "library file name"
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The identification of library.  It is the resersed domain name of the vendor
followed by \fB\&.\fR followed by the vendor specific name of the plugin that
uniquiely identifies the plugin library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlibrary file name\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The  shared  object library file in the absolute path format.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExample of an \fB/etc/mpapi.conf\fR file
.sp
.in +2
.nf
# This file contains names and references to MP API plugin libraries
#
#  Do NOT manually edit this file
#
# Format:
#
# <library ID>  <library file name>
#
com.sun.mpapi32         /lib/libmpscsi_vhci.so
com.sun.mpapi64         /lib/64/libmpscsi_vhci.so
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	T{
Standard: ANSI INCITS 412 Multipath Management API
T}
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibMPAPI\fR(3LIB), \fBMP_DeregisterPlugin\fR(3MPAPI),
\fBMP_RegisterPlugin\fR(3MPAPI), \fBattributes\fR(5)
