'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NCALOGD.CONF 4 "Jan 22, 2002"
.SH NAME
ncalogd.conf \- NCA logging configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/nca/ncalogd.conf\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBncalogd.conf\fR is used to configure Solaris Network Cache and
Accelerator ("\fBNCA\fR") logging. The file contains two fields, \fBkey\fR and
\fBvalue\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBstatus\fR key is used to indicate if the user wants to have \fBNCA\fR
logging turned on. If the value of \fBstatus\fR key is \fBenabled\fR, then
\fBNCA\fR logging will be turned on. If the value of the \fBstatus\fR key is
\fBdisabled\fR, then \fBNCA\fR logging will not be invoked. The default value
is \fBdisabled\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlogd_path_name\fR key specifies the absolute pathname of the log file.
The log file must be a raw device without a filesystem or a file on a local
file system. The default value is \fB/var/nca/log\fR. \fBlogd_path_name\fR can
also contain a whitespace-delimited list of values for multiple log files to a
maximum of 16. If you specify multiple log files, you must enclose the list in
quotation marks ("). With multiple files, \fBNCA\fR logging moves to the next
file on the list once the file size specified by \fBlogd_file_size\fR has been
reached. When the last file is full, \fBNCA\fR logging rotates back to the
first file in the list. A pointer to the current log file is stored in
\fB/var/nca/current\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBlogd_file_size\fR key specifies the value of the file size, in bytes,
allowed for each log file specified in by the \fBlogd_path_name\fR key. The
default value is 1000000 bytes.
.sp
.LP
In order to implement changes to the \fBncalogd.conf\fR file, you will need to
stop and start NCA logging or reboot.
.sp
.LP
NCA stores logs in a binary format. Use the \fBncab2clf\fR(1) utility to
convert the log from a binary format to the Common Log File format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA Sample \fBncalogd.conf\fR File
.sp
.LP
The following is a sample \fBncalogd.conf\fR file that specifies three log
files:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
# NCA Log Daemon Configuration File
#

status=enabled
logd_path_name="/var/nca/log1 /var/nca/log2 /var/nca/log3"
logd_file_size=1000000
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note that there is no NCA logging daemon. Logging is performed as one of the
functions of the NCA software.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nca/ncalogd.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Lists configuration parameters for \fBNCA\fRlogging.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnca\fR(1), \fBncab2clf\fR(1), \fBncakmod\fR(1), \fBdd\fR(1M),
\fBdoor_create\fR(3C), \fBnca.if\fR(4), \fBncakmod.conf\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: IP Services\fR
