'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH QUEUEDEFS 4 "Mar 1, 1994"
.SH NAME
queuedefs \- queue description file for at, batch, and cron
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/cron.d/queuedefs\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBqueuedefs\fR file describes the characteristics of the queues managed by
\fBcron\fR(1M). Each non-comment line in this file describes one queue. The
format of the lines are as follows:
.sp
.LP
\fIq\fR\fB\&.\fR[\fInjob\fR\fBj\fR][\fBnice\fR\fBn\fR][\fInwait\fR\fBw\fR]
.sp
.LP
The fields in this line are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIq\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The name of the queue. \fBa\fR is the default queue for jobs started by
\fBat\fR(1); \fBb\fR is the default queue for jobs started by \fBbatch\fR (see
\fBat\fR(1)); \fBc\fR is the default queue for jobs run from a \fBcrontab\fR(1)
file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInjob\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The maximum number of jobs that can be run simultaneously in that queue; if
more than \fInjob\fR jobs are ready to run, only the first \fInjob\fR jobs will
be run, and the others will be run as jobs that are currently running
terminate.  The default value is  \fB100\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The \fBnice\fR(1) value to give to all jobs in that queue that are not run with
a user \fBID\fR of super-user.  The default value is \fB2\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInwait\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The number of seconds to wait before rescheduling a job that was deferred
because more than \fInjob\fR jobs were running in that job's queue, or because
the system-wide limit of jobs executing has been reached.  The default value is
\fB60\fR.
.RE

.sp
.LP
Lines beginning with \fB#\fR are comments, and are ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample file.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fB#
#
a.4j1n
b.2j2n90w\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
This file specifies that the \fBa\fR queue, for \fBat\fR jobs, can have up to 4
jobs running simultaneously; those jobs will be run with a \fBnice\fR value of
1.  As no \fInwait\fR value was given, if a job cannot be run because too many
other jobs are running \fBcron\fR will wait 60 seconds before trying again to
run it.

.sp
.LP
The \fBb\fR queue, for \fBbatch\fR(1) jobs, can have up to 2 jobs running
simultaneously; those jobs will be run with a \fBnice\fR(1) value of 2.  If a
job cannot be run because too many other jobs are running, \fBcron\fR(1M) will
wait 90 seconds before trying again to run it. All other queues can have up to
100 jobs running simultaneously; they will be run with a \fBnice\fR value of 2,
and if a job cannot be run because too many other jobs are running \fBcron\fR
will wait 60 seconds before trying again to run it.

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/cron.d/queuedefs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
queue description file for  \fBat\fR, \fBbatch\fR, and  \fBcron\fR.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBat\fR(1), \fBcrontab\fR(1), \fBnice\fR(1), \fBcron\fR(1M)
