'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RMTAB 4 "Nov 15, 1990"
.SH NAME
rmtab \- remote mounted file system table
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/rmtab\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrmtab\fR contains a table of filesystems that are remotely mounted by
\fBNFS\fR clients. This file is maintained by \fBmountd\fR(1M), the mount
daemon. The data in this file should be obtained only from  \fBmountd\fR(1M)
using the \fBMOUNTPROC_DUMP\fR remote procedure call.
.sp
.LP
The file contains a line of information for each remotely mounted filesystem.
There are a number of lines of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBhostname\fR\fB:\fR\fIfsname\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The mount daemon adds an entry for any client that successfully executes a
mount request and deletes the appropriate entries for an unmount request.
.sp
.LP
Lines beginning with a hash (' \fB#\fR') are commented out. These lines are
removed from the file by \fBmountd\fR(1M) when it first starts up. Stale
entries may accumulate for clients that crash without sending an unmount
request.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/rmtab\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmountd\fR(1M), \fBshowmount\fR(1M)
