'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1991, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC 4 "Feb 25, 2017"
.SH NAME
rpc \- rpc program number data base
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/etc/rpc\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBrpc\fR file is a local source containing user readable names that can be
used in place of \fBRPC\fR program numbers.  The  \fBrpc\fR file can be used in
conjunction with or instead of other rpc sources, including the \fBNIS\fR maps
``rpc.byname'' and ``rpc.bynumber''.
.sp
.LP
The rpc file has one line for each \fBRPC\fR program name. The line has the
following format:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIname-of-the-RPC-program\fR \fIRPC-program-number\fR \fIaliases\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Items are separated by any number of blanks and/or tab characters. A
``\fB#\fR'' indicates the beginning of a comment; characters up to the end of
the line are not interpreted by routines which search the file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRRPC Database
.sp
.LP
Below is an example of an RPC database:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#
#	rpc
#
rpcbind	100000	portmap	sunrpc	portmapper
rusersd	100002	rusers
nfs	100003	nfsprog
mountd	100005	mount	showmount
walld	100008	rwall	shutdown
sprayd	100012	spray
llockmgr	100020
nlockmgr	100021
status	100024
bootparam	100026
keyserv	100029	keyserver
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4)
