'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SEL_CONFIG 4 "Jul 20, 2007"
.SH NAME
sel_config \- selection rules for copy, cut, paste, drag and drop operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/dt/config/sel_config\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsel_config\fR file specifies how a system that is configured with
Trusted Extensions behaves when a user transfers data between windows that have
different labels. Transfer operations include cut-and-paste, copy-and-paste,
and drag-and-drop. There are two types of entries in this file: automatic
confirmation and automatic reply.
.SS "Automatic Confirmation"
.sp
.LP
This type of entry specifies whether a confirmation window, the selection
confirmer, displays. Each entry has the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIrelationship\fR: \fIconfirmation\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
\fIrelationship\fR identifies the result of comparing the selected data's
source and destination windows' labels. There are three allowed values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBupgradesl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The source window's label is less than the destination window's label.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdowngradesl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The source window's label is higher than the destination window's label.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisjointsl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
The source and destination windows' labels are disjoint. Neither label
dominates the other.
.RE

.sp
.LP
\fIconfirmation\fR specifies whether to perform automatic confirmation. Allowed
values are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Use manual confirmation, that is, display the selection confirmer window. This
is the default.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBy\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Use automatic confirmation, that is, do not display the selection confirmer
window.
.RE

.SS "Automatic Reply"
.sp
.LP
A single user operation can involve several flows of information between the
source and destination windows. The automatic reply set of entries provides a
means to reduce the number of confirmations that are required of the user.
.sp
.LP
There must be one entry of this form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
autoreply: \fIvalue\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
If \fIvalue\fR is \fBy\fR (for yes), then the remaining entries of the set are
used as attributes for the selection data (rather than the actual contents) to
complete the operation without confirmation. If \fIvalue\fR is \fBn\fR (for
no), then the remaining entries are ignored.
.sp
.LP
Defaults can be specified for any \fItype\fR field that appears in the
Confirmer window. Below are some sample entries for defaults.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
replytype: TARGETS
replytype: Pixel Sets
replytype: LENGTH
replytype: Type Of Monitor
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
The \fBTARGETS\fR entry, when used, returns the list of target atoms that are
supported by the source window. The \fBPixel Sets\fR and \fBType Of Monitor\fR
entries are used for animation during a drag-and-drop operation. The
\fBLENGTH\fR entry specifies the number of bytes in the selection.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Committed
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIRules When Changing the Level of Security for Data\fR in \fISolaris Trusted
Extensions Administrator\&'s Procedures\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The functionality described on this manual page is available only if the system
is configured with Trusted Extensions.
