'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SHARETAB 4 "Jul 3, 1990"
.SH NAME
sharetab \- shared file system table
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsharetab\fR resides in directory \fB/etc/dfs\fR and contains a table of
local resources shared by the \fBshare\fR command.
.sp
.LP
Each line of the file consists of the following fields:
.sp
.LP
\fIpathname resource fstype specific_options description\fR
.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpathname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Indicate the path name of the shared resource.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresource\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Indicate the symbolic name by which remote systems can  access the resource.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfstype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Indicate the file system type of the shared resource.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIspecific_options\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Indicate file-system-type-specific options that were given to the \fBshare\fR
command when the resource was shared.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdescription\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Describe the shared resource provided by the system administrator when the
resource was shared.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBshare\fR(1M)
