'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2009, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 2011, Nexenta Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License"). You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE. If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SMB 4 "Sep 25, 2009"
.SH NAME
smb \- configuration properties for Solaris CIFS server
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Behavior of the Solaris CIFS server is defined by property values that are
stored in the Service Management Facility, \fBsmf\fR(5).
.sp
.LP
An authorized user can use the \fBsharectl\fR(1M) command to set global values
for these properties in SMF.
.sp
.LP
The following list describes the properties:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBads_site\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the site configured in DNS to look up Active Directory information.
Sites provide a mechanism to partition or delegate administration and policy
management, which are typically used in large or complex domains.
.sp
The value should not be set if you do not have a local Active Directory site.
By default, no value is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBautohome_map\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the full path for the SMD autohome map file, \fBsmbautohome\fR. The
default path is \fB/etc\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdisposition\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
A value that controls whether to disconnect the share or proceed if the map
command fails. The disposition property only has meaning when the map property
has been set. Otherwise it will have no effect.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
disposition = [ continue | terminate ]
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBcontinue\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Proceed with share connection if the map command fails. This is the default in
the event that disposition is not specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBterminate\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disconnect the share if the map command fails.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBddns_enable\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables or disables dynamic DNS updates. A value of \fBtrue\fR enables dynamic
updates, while a value of \fBfalse\fR disables dynamic updates. By default, the
value is \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBipv6_enabled\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables IPv6 Internet protocol support within the CIFS Service. Valid values
are \fBtrue\fR and \fBfalse\fR. The default value is \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBkeep_alive\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of seconds before an idle SMB connection is dropped by the
Solaris CIFS server. If set to 0, idle connections are not dropped. Valid
values are 0 and from 20 seconds and above. The default value is 5400 seconds.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBlmauth_level\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the LAN Manager (LM) authentication level. The LM compatibility level
controls the type of user authentication to use in workgroup mode or domain
mode. The default value is 3.
.sp
The following describes the behavior at each level.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB2\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
In Windows workgroup mode, the Solaris CIFS server accepts LM, NTLM, LMv2, and
NTLMv2 requests. In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the Solaris CIFS server
sends NTLM requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB3\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
In Windows workgroup mode, the Solaris CIFS server accepts LM, NTLM, LMv2, and
NTLMv2 requests. In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the Solaris CIFS server
sends LMv2 and NTLMv2 requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB4\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
In Windows workgroup mode, the Solaris CIFS server accepts NTLM, LMv2, and
NTLMv2 requests. In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the Solaris CIFS server
sends LMv2 and NTLMv2 requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB5\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
In Windows workgroup mode, the Solaris CIFS server accepts LMv2 and NTLMv2
requests. In domain mode, the SMB redirector on the Solaris CIFS server sends
LMv2 and NTLMv2 requests.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value is a command to be executed when connecting to the share. The command
can take the following arguments, which will be substituted when the command is
exec'd as described below:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%U\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Windows username.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%D\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Name of the domain or workgroup of \fB%U\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%h\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server hostname.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%M\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The client hostname, or \fB""\fR if not available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%L\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The server NetBIOS name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%m\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The client NetBIOS name, or \fB""\fR if not available. This option is only
valid for NetBIOS connections (port 139).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%I\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The IP address of the client machine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%i\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The local IP address to which the client is connected.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%S\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The name of the share.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%P\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The root directory of the share.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB%u\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The UID of the Unix user.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBmax_workers\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the maximum number of worker threads that will be launched to process
incoming CIFS requests. The SMB \fBmax_mpx\fR value, which indicates to a
client the maximum number of outstanding SMB requests that it may have pending
on the server, is derived from the \fBmax_workers\fR value. To ensure
compatibility with older versions of Windows the lower 8-bits of \fBmax_mpx\fR
must not be zero. If the lower byte of \fBmax_workers\fR is zero, \fB64\fR is
added to the value. Thus the minimum value is \fB64\fR and the default value,
which appears in \fBsharectl\fR(1M) as \fB1024\fR, is \fB1088\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBnetbios_scope\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the NetBIOS scope identifier, which identifies logical NetBIOS
networks that are on the same physical network. When you specify a NetBIOS
scope identifier, the server filters the number of machines that are listed in
the browser display to make it easier to find other hosts. The value is a text
string that represents a domain name. By default, no value is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBpdc\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the preferred IP address for the domain controller. This property is
sometimes used when there are multiple domain controllers to indicate which one
is preferred. If the specified domain controller responds, it is chosen even if
the other domain controllers are also available. By default, no value is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrestrict_anonymous\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Disables anonymous access to IPC$, which requires that the client be
authenticated to get access to MSRPC services through IPC$. A value of
\fBtrue\fR disables anonymous access to IPC$, while a value of \fBfalse\fR
enables anonymous access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsigning_enabled\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables SMB signing. When signing is enabled but not required it is possible
for clients to connect regardless of whether or not the client supports SMB
signing. If a packet has been signed, the signature will be verified. If a
packet has not been signed it will be accepted without signature verification.
Valid values are \fBtrue\fR and \fBfalse\fR. The default value is \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsigning_required\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
When SMB signing is required, all packets must be signed or they will be
rejected, and clients that do not support signing will be unable to connect to
the server. The \fBsigning_required\fR setting is only taken into account when
\fBsigning_enabled\fR is \fBtrue\fR. Valid values are \fBtrue\fR and
\fBfalse\fR. The default value is \fBfalse\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsystem_comment\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an optional description for the system, which is a text string. This
property value might appear in various places, such as Network Neighborhood or
Network Places on Windows clients. By default, no value is set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtraverse_mounts\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The \fBtraverse_mounts\fR setting determines how the SMB server
presents sub-mounts underneath an SMB share.  When \fBtraverse_mounts\fR
is \fBtrue\fR (the default), sub-mounts are presented to SMB clients
like any other subdirectory.   When \fBtraverse_mounts\fR is \fBfalse\fR,
sub-mounts are not shown to SMB clients.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBunmap\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
The value is a command to be executed when disconnecting the share. The command
can take the same substitutions listed on the \fBmap\fR property.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwins_exclude\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a comma-separated list of network interfaces that should not be
registered with WINS. NetBIOS host announcements are made on excluded
interfaces.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwins_server_1\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the IP address of the primary WINS server. By default, no value is
set.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBwins_server_2\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the IP address of the secondary WINS server. By default, no value is
set.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See the \fBattributes\fR(5) man page for descriptions of the following
attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Uncommitted
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsharectl\fR(1M), \fBsmbadm\fR(1M), \fBsmbd\fR(1M), \fBsmbstat\fR(1M),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBsmf\fR(5)
