'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SULOG 4 "Jun 6, 1994"
.SH NAME
sulog \- su command log file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/var/adm/sulog\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBsulog\fR file is a record of all attempts by users on the system  to
execute the \fBsu\fR(1M) command.  Each time  \fBsu\fR(1M) is executed, an
entry is added to the \fBsulog\fR file.
.sp
.LP
Each entry in the \fBsulog\fR file is a single line of the form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBSU\fR \fBdate\fR \fBtime\fR
\fIresult port user\fR\fB-\fR\fInewuser\fR
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.sp
.LP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBdate\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The month and date \fBsu\fR(1M) was executed.  \fBdate\fR is displayed in the
form \fImm\fR\fB/\fR\fBdd\fR where  \fImm\fR is the month number and \fBdd\fR
is the day number in the month.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBtime\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The time  \fBsu\fR(1M) was executed. \fBtime\fR is displayed in the form
\fIHH\fR\fB/\fR\fIMM\fR where  \fIHH\fR is the hour number (24 hour system) and
\fIMM\fR is the minute number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresult\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The result of the  \fBsu\fR(1M) command.  A ` + ' sign is displayed in this
field if the su attempt was successful; otherwise  a ` - ' sign is displayed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The name of the terminal device from which  \fBsu\fR(1M) was executed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The user id of the user executing the  \fBsu\fR(1M) command.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInewuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The user id being switched to with  \fBsu\fR(1M).
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRA sample \fBsulog\fR file.
.sp
.LP
Here is a sample \fBsulog\fR file:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SU 02/25 09:29 + console root-sys
SU 02/25 09:32 + pts/3 user1-root
SU 03/02 08:03 + pts/5 user1-root
SU 03/03 08:19 + pts/5 user1-root
SU 03/09 14:24 - pts/5 guest3-root
SU 03/09 14:24 - pts/5 guest3-root
SU 03/14 08:31 + pts/4 user1-root
.fi
.in -2
.sp

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/sulog\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
su log file
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/default/su\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
contains the default location of  \fBsulog\fR
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsu\fR(1M)
