'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2008, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH UTMPX 4 "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
utmpx, wtmpx \- utmpx and wtmpx database entry formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB#include <utmpx.h>\fR
\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR
\fB/var/adm/wtmpx\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fButmpx\fR and \fBwtmpx\fR files are extended database files that have
superseded the obsolete \fButmp\fR and \fBwtmp\fR database files.
.sp
.LP
The \fButmpx\fR database contains user access and accounting information for
commands such as \fBwho\fR(1), \fBwrite\fR(1), and \fBlogin\fR(1). The
\fBwtmpx\fR database contains the history of user access and accounting
information for the  \fButmpx\fR database.
.SH USAGE
.LP
Applications should not access these databases directly, but should use the
functions described on the \fBgetutxent\fR(3C) manual page to interact with the
\fButmpx\fR and \fBwtmpx\fR databases to ensure that they are maintained
consistently.
.SH FILES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/utmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
user access and administration information
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/adm/wtmpx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
history of user access and administrative information
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBgetutxent\fR(3C), \fBwait\fR(3C), \fBwait.h\fR(3HEAD)
