'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH POOL_VALUE_ALLOC 3POOL "Sep 23, 2003"
.SH NAME
pool_value_alloc, pool_value_free, pool_value_get_bool, pool_value_get_double,
pool_value_get_int64, pool_value_get_name, pool_value_get_string,
pool_value_get_type, pool_value_get_uint64, pool_value_set_bool,
pool_value_set_double, pool_value_set_int64, pool_value_set_name,
pool_value_set_string, pool_value_set_uint64 \- resource pool property value
manipulation functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lpool\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <pool.h>

\fBpool_value_t *\fR\fBpool_value_alloc\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpool_value_free\fR(\fBpool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBpool_value_class_t\fR \fBpool_value_get_type\fR(
     \fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_get_bool\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBuchar_t *\fR\fIbool\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_get_double\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBdouble *\fR\fId\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_get_int64\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBint64_t *\fR\fIi64\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_get_string\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fR\fIstrp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_get_uint64\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBuint64_t *\fR\fIui64\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpool_value_set_bool\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBuchar_t\fR \fIbool\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpool_value_set_double\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBdouble\fR \fId\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpool_value_set_int64\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBint64_t\fR \fIi64\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_set_string\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIstrp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBpool_value_set_uint64\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBuint64_t\fR \fIui64\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBconst char *\fR\fBpool_value_get_name\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBpool_value_set_name\fR(\fBconst pool_value_t *\fR\fIvalue\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A \fBpool_value_t\fR is an opaque type representing the typed value portion of
a pool property. For a list of the types supported by a \fBpool_value_t\fR, see
\fBpool_get_property\fR(3POOL).
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_alloc()\fR function allocates and returns an opaque container
for a pool property value. The \fBpool_value_free()\fR function must be called
explicitly for allocated property values.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_get_bool()\fR, \fBpool_value_get_double()\fR,
\fBpool_value_get_int64()\fR, \fBpool_value_get_string()\fR, and
\fBpool_value_get_uint64()\fR functions retrieve the value contained in the
\fBpool_value_t\fR pointed to by \fIvalue\fR to the location pointed to by the
second argument. If the type of the value does not match that expected by the
function, an error value is returned.  The string retrieved by
\fBpool_value_get_string()\fR is freed by the library when the value is
overwritten or \fBpool_value_free()\fR is called on the pool property value.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_get_type()\fR function returns the type of the data contained
by a \fBpool_value_t\fR. If the value is unused then a type of \fBPOC_INVAL\fR
is returned.
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_set_bool()\fR, \fBpool_value_set_double()\fR,
\fBpool_value_set_int64()\fR, \fBpool_value_set_string()\fR, and
\fBpool_value_set_uint64()\fR functions set the value and type of the property
value to the provided values. The \fBpool_value_set_string()\fR function copies
the string passed in and returns -1 if the memory allocation fails.
.sp
.LP
Property values can optionally have names. These names are used to describe
properties as name=value pairs in the various query functions (see
\fBpool_query_resources\fR(3POOL)).  A copy of the string passed to
\fBpool_value_set_name()\fR is made by the library, and the value returned by
\fBpool_value_get_name()\fR is freed when the \fBpool_value_t\fR is deallocated
or overwritten.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpool_value_alloc()\fR returns a pool property
value with type initialized to \fBPVC_INVAL\fR. Otherwise, \fINULL\fR is
returned and \fBpool_error()\fR returns the pool-specific error value.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpool_value_get_type()\fR returns the type
contained in the property value passed in as an argument. Otherwise,
\fBPOC_INVAL\fR is returned and \fBpool_error()\fR returns the pool-specific
error value.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpool_value_get_bool()\fR,
\fBpool_value_get_double()\fR, \fBpool_value_get_int64()\fR,
\fBpool_value_get_string()\fR, and \fBpool_value_get_uint64()\fR return 0.
Otherwise -1 is returned and \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL) returns the pool-specific
error value.
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBpool_value_set_string()\fR and
\fBpool_value_set_name()\fR return 0. If the memory allocation failed, -1 is
returned and \fBpool_error()\fR returns the pool-specific error value.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_alloc()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOE_SYSTEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more details.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_get_bool()\fR, \fBpool_value_get_double()\fR,
\fBpool_value_get_int64()\fR, \fBpool_value_get_string()\fR, and
\fBpool_value_get_uint64()\fR functions will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOE_BADPARAM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The supplied \fIvalue\fR does not match the type of the requested operation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_set_string()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOE_SYSTEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more details.
.RE

.sp
.LP
The \fBpool_value_set_name()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPOE_SYSTEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A system error has occurred. Check the system error code for more details.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
CSI	Enabled
_
Interface Stability	Unstable
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibpool\fR(3LIB), \fBpool_error\fR(3POOL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
