.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PASFD 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pasfd
.Nd obtain the process address space file descriptor
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pasfd
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pasfd
funtion returns a file descriptor that allows direct access to the
address space of the process handle
.Fa P .
A defined file descriptor is provided when using the
.Xr Pcreate ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
and
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC
functions. Note that the address space may be different in each of these
cases and doesn't necessarily correspond to the /proc
.Sy as
file, except for live processes. Other means of obtaining a
.Sy libproc
process handle may not define a file descriptor that contains the
address space.
.Pp
The returned file descriptor must not be closed and is only valid for
as long as the corresponding process handle
.Fa P
is valid. After a call to
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
the file descriptor is invalidated.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pasfd
function returns a valid file descriptor. Otherwise, if none exists,
then
.Sy -1
is returned.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr Prelease 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
