.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PCLEARFAULT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pclearfault ,
.Nm Lclearfault
.Nd clear process and thread faults
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pclearfault
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Lclearfault
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
During normal operation a process may encounter a
.Sy fault ,
due to a hardware exception, identifying a problem with the running
process. Hardware faults include things like executing illegal
instructions, encountering a breakpoint, and arithmetic exceptions.
Faults are discussed further in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pclearfault
function instructs the system to clear any fault pending delivery to a
thread in the process represented by the process handle
.Fa P .
The pending fault will never be delivered to process represented by
.Fa P .
.Pp
The
.Fn Lclearfault
function is identical to the
.Fn Pclearfault
function, except rather than operating on the representative thread of
the process it operates on the thread handle
.Fa L .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pclearfault
and
.Fn Lclearfault
functions only have meaning for active processes. They will fail on process
handles corresponding to zombie processes, ELF objects, and cores.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pclearfault
and
.Fn Lclearfault
functions clear pending faults and return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned,
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error,
and no faults are cleared.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
