.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PCLEARSIG 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pclearsig ,
.Nm Lclearsig
.Nd clear process signals
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pclearsig
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Lclearsig
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
During normal operation a process may receive a signal. Signals may
indicate an error, for example referencing unmapped memory, an alarm
firing, requests for information, and users requesting an interruption.
For more information on the generation and usage of signals, see
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pclearsig
function instructs the system to clear any signal pending delivery to
a thread in the process represented by the process handle
.Fa P .
The pending signal will never be delivered to process represented by
.Fa P .
.Pp
The
.Fn Lclearsig
function is identical to the
.Fn Pclearsig
function, except rather than operating on the process and its
representive thread, it instead operates on the thread handle
.Fa L .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pclearsig
function only has meaning for active processes. It will fail on process
handles corresponding to core files, zombie processes and ELF objects.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pclearsig
function clears pending faults and
returns
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned,
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error,
and no faults are cleared.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
