.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PCONTENT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pconent
.Nd obtain process content types available
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libproc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libproc.h
.Ft "core_content_t"
.Fo Pcontent
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pcontent
function describes information available from the process handle
.Fa P .
.Pp
Different types of process handles have different kinds of content
available to them.
For example, handles to active and running processes have more information
available than various core files, as the core file retains a subset of
information available in the running process.
Handles that refer to ELF objects, obtained through
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
will not have information such as a stack available.
The content of core files is controlled by
.Xr coreadm 1M .
.Pp
The symbols that may be returned are listed in the
.Sy core_content_t
heading in the
.Sy TYPES
section in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pcontent
function returns the bitwise-inclusive-OR of content types.
Otherwise,
.Dv CC_CONTENT_INVALID
is returned to indicate an error.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
