.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2024 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.Dd May 10, 2024
.Dt Pcwd 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pcwd ,
.Nm Pcwd_free
.Nd get process current working directory information
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libproc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pcwd
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "prcwd_t **cwdp"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo Pcwd_free
.Fa "prcwd_t *cwd"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pcwd
function obtains the current working directory and related information
about the file system it is contained upon of the process handle
.Fa P .
This information is synthesized for live processes and is obtained from
the
.Dv NT_CWD
elf note for core files.
It is not supported on handles that refer to idle
.Pq Dv PS_IDLE
processes.
.Pp
The library will allocate the memory needed for a
.Ft prcwd_t
structure.
A pointer to this data will be stored in
.Fa cwdp .
It is the callers responsibility to release it by calling the
.Fn Pcwd_free
function and passing it back in the
.Fa cwd
argument.
The allocated data stored in
.Fa cwdp
has a lifetime independent of the process handle,
.Fa P .
In other words, the data in
.Fa cwdp
may be used after someone has called
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
or
.Xr Pfree 3PROC
on
.Fa P .
.Pp
The
.Ft prcwd_t
structure is defined in
.In sys/procfs.h
and discussed in more detail in
.Xr core 5 .
The various path related strings are NUL-terminated character strings that may
not be valid in the calling process's locale.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pwcd
function returns
.Sy 0
and stores the allocated
.Vt prcwd_t
structure in
.Fa cwdp .
Otherwise
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Pcwd
functions will fail if:
.Bl  -tag -width Er
.It Er EAGAIN, ENOMEM
An underlying memory allocation failed.
.It Er ENODATA
The process handle,
.Fa P ,
refers to a core file which does not contain the
.Dv NT_CWD
ELF note.
.It Er ENOTSUP
The process handle
.Fa P ,
does not support obtaining the current working directory.
This would happen because the process handle does not refer to a core
file or live process.
.El
.Pp
Additional errors may be generated based on the type of process handle
that is present.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pwdx 1 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr core 5 ,
.Xr proc 5
