.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PDELBKPT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pdelbkpt
.Nd clear a breakpoint in a process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pdelbkpt
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "uintptr_t address"
.Fa "ulong_t saved"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pdelbkpt
function removes the breakpoint installed at
.Fa address
from process
.Fa P .
Restoring the instruction present in
.Fa saved .
.Pp
If the instruction at
.Fa address
is no longer the architecture-specific breakpoint instruction, then
.Fa saved
is not restored, but the function still returns successfully.
This behavior is done due to the presence of setting breakpoints in
self-modifying code, e.g. procedure linkage tables.
.Pp
The
.Fn Pdelbkpt
function only works on running processes, such as those created through
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC
and
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC .
Attempting to remove a breakpoint from process handles to core files,
zombie processes, or ELF objects will fail.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pdelbkpt
function removes the breakpoint and
returns
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned, and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pdelbkpt
function will fail with:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOENT
The handle
.Fa P
refers to a grabbed core file, a zombie process, or an ELF object.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetbkpt 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
