.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PDELWAPT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pdelwapt
.Nd remove a watchpoint in a process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Pdelwapt
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const prwatch_t *wp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pdelwapt
function removes the watchpoint specified by
.Fa wp
from the process represented by the handle
.Fa P .
The watchpoint should have been installed with either
.Xr Psetwapt 3PROC
or the underlying /proc file system
.Sy PCWATCH
operation.
.Pp
The
.Fn Pdelwapt
function only works on running processes, such as those created through
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC
and
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC .
Attempting to remove a watchpoint from process handles to core files,
zombie processes, or ELF objects will fail.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pdelwapt
function removes the watchpoint and returns
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned,
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Pdelwapt
function will fail with:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOENT
The handle
.Fa P
refers to a grabbed core file, a zombie process, or an ELF object.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetwapt 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
