.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd March 2, 2017
.Dt PENV_ITER 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Penv_iter
.Nd iterate process environment
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Penv_iter
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "proc_env_f *func"
.Fa "void *data"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Penv_iter
function iterates over the environment of the process represented by
.Fa P .
For each environment variable,
.Fa func
is passed the caller argument
.Fa data
along with the address of the environment variable and the key-value
pair. For the full signature of the
.Ft proc_env_f
callback, see
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Pp
The callback's return value controls whether or not iteration
proceeds. If
.Fa func
returns zero, then iteration continues. Otherwise, iteration is
terminated and the value is returned. It is recommended that callback
functions do not return
.Sy -1
so as to distinguish between the failure of the
.Fn Penv_iter
function and the callback function.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Penv_iter
function returns
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise, if there was an internal error, for example due to a
corrupted environment, then
.Sy -1
is returned. Otherwise, if the callback function
.Fa func
returns non-zero, then its return value will be returned instead.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB
