.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PERROR_PRINTF 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Perror_printf
.Nd interposable function for additional diagnostics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ft void
.Fo Perror_printf
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const char *format"
.Fa "..."
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Perror_printf
function allows for consumers of the
.Sy libproc
library to obtain additional diagnostic information during various
operations. Consumers must explicitly
.Em interpose
on this symbol and provide their own definition, if desired. There is no
requirement for such an interposition to be done. When called,
.Fa P
will be the process handle that the additional diagnostics are being
generated for and the diagnostics will be provided in a
.Xr printf 3C
style.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Pp
While the interposing interface is
.Sy uncommitted ,
the provided diagnostics are
.Sy Not-an-Interface
and may change at any time.
.Sh LOCKING
Callers should presume that this function may be called from multiple
threads and always in a context in which taking locks is fine. Callers
should not expect to be called from a signal handler.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB
