.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PGCORE 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pfgcore ,
.Nm Pgcore
.Nd produce a core file of a process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ft int
.Fo Pfgcore
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "int fd"
.Fa "core_content_t content"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Pgcore
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const char *fname"
.Fa "core_content_t content"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pgcore
and
.Fn Pfgcore
functions produce core files of the handle referred to by
.Fa P .
Core files represent a snapshot of a process and may be manipulated by a
wide variety of tools and libraries including
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr mdb 1 ,
.Xr pargs 1 ,
.Xr pstack 1 ,
and more. For details on the core file format, see
.Xr core 4 .
.Pp
.Fn Pfgcore
writes the core to the file represented by the open descriptor
.Fa fd .
The file descriptor should be open for both read and write.
.Fn Pgcore
writes the core to the file path
.Fa fname .
.Pp
The content of the core is controlled by the
.Fa content
argument. It's the inclusive-bitwise-OR of the various content types
listed under the
.Sy core_content_t
heading in the
.Sy TYPES
section in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
Using
.Dv CC_CONTENT_INVALID
is illegal and will result in an error.
.Pp
Neither the
.Fn Pgcore
or
.Fn Pfgcore
functions stop the handle
.Fa P .
It is up to the caller to stop the process; which is recommended for
obtaining a consistent view of the process. See the
.Xr Pstop 3PROC
function for a means to stop a handle.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pfcore
and
.Fn Pgcore
functions return
.Sy 0
and write out a core file to specified location. Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned. The
.Fn Pfgcore
function will truncate
.Fa fd
and the
.Fn Pgcore
function will remove
.Fa fname .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr coreadm 1M ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pstop 3PROC ,
.Xr core 4 ,
.Xr proc 4
