.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PGRAB 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pgrab
.Nd grab and control a process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft "struct ps_prochandle *"
.Fo Pgrab
.Fa "pid_t pid"
.Fa "int flags"
.Fa "int *perr"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pgrab
function attempts to grab the process identified by
.Fa pid
and returns a handle to it that allows the process to be controlled,
interrogated, and manipulated. This interface only works with processes
that already exist. Use
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC
for core files and
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC
to create processes.
.Pp
A grabbed process undergoes the following changes unless
.Fa flags
is set to the contrary:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
The process is stopped
.It
All other tracing flags are cleared
.It
The grab is exclusive. If any existing handles to this process exist
or anyone else is using the underlying facilities of the /proc file
system to control this process, it will fail.
.It
Unless the process is already stopped, the
.Dv PR_RLC
flag is set indicating the process should run-on-last-close. Allowing
the process to resume running if its controlling process dies.
.El
.Pp
Grabbing a process is a
.Em destructive
action. Stopping a process stops execution of all its threads. The
impact of stopping a process depends on the purpose of that process.
For example, if one stops a process that's primarily doing
computation, then its computation is delayed the entire time that it
is stopped. However, if instead this is an active TCP server, then the
accept backlog may fill causing connection errors and potentially
connection time out errors.
.Pp
Special care must be taken to ensure that a stopped process continues,
even if the controlling process terminates. If the controlling process
disables the
.Dv PR_RLC
flag or the process was already stopped, then the process remains
stopped after the controlling process terminates. Exercise caution
when changing this behavior.
.Pp
Many of these default behaviors can be controlled by passing values to
the
.Fa flags
argument. Values for
.Fa flags
are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive-OR of flags from the following
list:
.Bl -tag -width Dv -offset indent
.It Dv PGRAB_RETAIN
Indicates that any existing tracing flags on
.Fa pid
should be retained. If this flag is not specified, they will be cleared
as part of creating the
.Sy libproc
handle for this process.
.Pp
Normally extant tracing flags are cleared when a process is grabbed.
.It Dv PGRAB_FORCE
Indicates that the process should not be grabbed exclusively. Care
should be taken with this option. If other consumers are manipulating
the process, then this may result in surprising behavior as the process
is being manipulated from multiple points of control at the same time.
.Pp
Normally an attempt will be made to grab the process exclusively and
fail if it is already in use.
.It Dv PGRAB_RDONLY
Indicates that the process should be grabbed in a read-only fashion.
This implies that both the
.Dv PGRAB_RETAIN
and
.Dv PGRAB_NOSTOP
flags should be set. If a process is opened read-only, then a caller can
only read information about a process and cannot manipulate it, change
its current state, or inject systems calls into it.
.Pp
Normally when a process is grabbed, it does so for both reading and
writing.
.It Dv PGRAB_NOSTOP
Do not stop a process as it is grabbed. Note, any extant tracing flags
on the process will still be cleared unless the
.Dv PGRAB_RETAIN
flag has been set.
.Pp
Normally a process is stopped as a result of grabbing the process.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fa perr
argument must be a
.Pf non- Dv NULL
pointer which will store a more detailed error in the event that the
.Fn Pgrab
function fails. A human-readable form of the error can be obtained
with
.Xr Pgrab_error 3PROC .
.Pp
Once a caller is done with the library handle it should call
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
to release the grabbed process. Failure to properly release the handle
may leave a process stopped and interfere with the ability of other
software to obtain a handle.
.Ss Permissions
Unprivileged users may grab and control their own processes only if both
the user and group IDs of the target process match those of the calling
process. In addition, the caller must have a super set of the target's
privileges. Processes with the
.Sy PRIV_PROC_OWNER
privilege may manipulate any process on the system, as long as it has an
equal privilege set. For more details on the security and programming
considerations, please see the section
.Sy PROGRAMMING NOTES
in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pgrab
function returns a control handle to the process. Otherwise,
.Dv NULL
is returned with
.Fa perr
containing the error code.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Pgrab
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er G_BUSY
The process
.Fa pid
is already being traced and the
.Dv PGRAB_FORCE
flag was not passed in
.Fa flags .
.It Er G_LP64
The calling process is a 32-bit process and process
.Fa pid
is 64-bit.
.It Er G_NOFD
Too many files are open. This is logically equivalent to receiving
.Er EMFILE .
.It Er G_NOPROC
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
does not exist.
.It Er G_PERM
The calling process has insufficient permissions or privileges to open
the specified process. See
.Sx Permissions
for more information.
.It Er G_SYS
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
is a system process and cannot be grabbed.
.It Er G_SELF
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
is the process ID of the caller and the
.Dv PGRAB_RDONLY
was not passed. A process may only grab itself if it's read-only.
.It Er G_STRANGE
An unanticipated system error occurred while trying to grab the process
file and create the handle.
The value of
.Sy errno
indicates the system failure.
.It Er G_ZOMB
The process referred to by
.Fa pid
is a zombie and cannot be grabbed.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr errno 3C ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pfree 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_error 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
