.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PGRAB_FILE 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pgrab_file
.Nd grab and inspect an ELF object
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft struct ps_prochandle
.Fo Pgrab_file
.Fa "const char *fname"
.Fa "int *perr"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pgrab_file
function creates a handle to the ELF object contained in file
.Fa fname .
This handle is considered an
.Em idle
handle, it allows one to inspect aspects of the ELF contents present in
the handle, for example obtaining CTF information and looking up
symbols.
.Pp
There is no running state associated with this handle nor can
there be. If one intends to control a running process or create a
process, see
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC
and
.Xr Pcreate 3PROC
respectively. To inspect a core file use
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC .
.Pp
The
.Fa perr
argument must be a
.Pf non- Dv NULL
pointer which will store a more detailed error in the event that
.Fn Pgrab_file
fails. A human-readable form of the error can be obtained with
.Xr Pgrab_error 3PROC .
.Pp
When finished with the returned handle,
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
must be called to clean up resources associated with it.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pgrab_file
function returns a control handle to the process. Otherwise,
.Dv NULL
is returned and
.Fa perr
is filled in with an error code.
.Sh ERRORS
.Bl -tag -width Er -offset indent
.It Er G_ELF
An unexpected
.Xr libelf 3LIB
failure occurred while processing the file named by
.Fa fname .
.It Er G_FORMAT
The file named by
.Fa fname
is not a valid ELF file.
.It Er G_NOEXEC
The file named by
.Fa fname
does not exist.
.It Er G_STRANGE
An unanticipated system error occurred while trying to grab the
file
.Fa fname
and create the handle.
The value of
.Sy errno
indicates the system failure.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr errno 3C ,
.Xr libelf 3LIB ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pfree 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_error 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
.Xr Prelease 3PROC
