.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PLWP_GETSPYMASTER 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Plwp_getspymaster
.Nd get agent LWP spy master information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Plwp_getspymaster
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "lwpid_t lwpid"
.Fa "psinfo_t *ps"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Plwp_getspymaster
function returns information about the spy master that corresponds to
the agent LWP for the thread
.Fa lwpid
in the process handle
.Fa P .
.Pp
The agent LWP allows another process to inject actions into the target process.
When an agent LWP is created, it leverages an existing thread in the process and
it also creates a record of whom created the agent, which is called the spy
master.
For more information on the agent LWP and the spy master, see
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
If the thread identified
.Fa lwpid
has an agent LWP, the corresponding ps information (see
.Xr proc 4
for the definition of the
.Sy psinfo_t Ns )
will be filled into
.Fa ps .
.Pp
Note, process handles that correspond to a file, created by
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
cannot have an agent LWP created for them and thus cannot have any spy
master information.
In addition, core files from older releases may not have any data on the spy
master.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Plwp_getspymaster
returns
.Sy 0
and updates
.Fa ps .
Otherwise, it returns
.Sy -1 ,
sets
.Sy errno ,
and
.Fa ps
is not modified.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors also see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Plwp_getpsinfo
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENODATA
.Fa P
refers to a file handle obtained through
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC
or
.Fa P
does not have any information about the spy master.
.It Er EINVAL
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to a core file and the specified thread does not exist.
.Pp
The thread,
.Fa lwpid
does not have an active agent,
.Dv PR_AGENT
is not set in the
.Sy pr_flags
member of the thread's status information.
.It Er ENOENT
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to an active process and the specified thread does not exist.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
