.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PLWP_GETPSINFO 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Plwp_getpsinfo
.Nd get thread specific ps information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Plwp_getpsinfo
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "lwpid_t lwpid"
.Fa "lwpsinfo_t *lps"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Plwp_getpsinfo
function
looks up the thread-specific
.Xr ps 1
information for the thread specified by
.Fa lwpid
in the process handle
.Fa P .
The caller should provide a pointer to an
.Sy lwpsinfo_t ,
.Fa lps ,
whose definition can be found in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Fa lps
will be filled in with information such as the thread's id, its current
state, priority, and run-time.
.Pp
The
.Fn Plwp_getpsinfo
function only works on process handles that refer to active processes
and core files, it does not work on process handles that refer to
individual files.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Plwp_getpsinfo
function returns
.Sy 0
and
.Fa lps
is filled in with the
thread-specific
.Xr ps 1
information. Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors also see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Plwp_getpsinfo
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENODATA
.Fa P
refers to a file handle obtained through
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC .
.It Er EINVAL
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to a core file and the specified thread does not exist.
.It Er ENOENT
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to an active process and the specified thread does not exist.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
