.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2018 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd August 31, 2018
.Dt PLWP_GETNAME 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Plwp_getname
.Nd get thread name
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libproc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Plwp_getname
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "lwpid_t lwpid"
.Fa "char *buf"
.Fa "size_t bufsize"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Plwp_getname
function returns the thread name in the supplied buffer, from the
thread
.Fa lwpid
in the process handle
.Fa P .
.Pp
If no thread name is set, the buffer is set to the empty string.
The buffer should be at least
.Dv THREAD_NAME_MAX
in size.
.Pp
The
.Fn Plwp_getname
function only works on process handles that refer to active processes
and core files, it does not work on process handles that refer to
individual files.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Plwp_getname
function returns 0.
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned,
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
The buffer may be modified even if an error is returned.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors also see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Plwp_getname
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENODATA
.Fa P
refers to a file handle obtained through
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC .
.It Er EINVAL
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to a core file and the specified thread does not exist.
.It Er ENOENT
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to an active process and the specified thread does not exist.
.Fa P
.It Er ENAMETOOLONG
The buffer is not sufficient to hold the thread name.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
