.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PLWP_GETGWINDOWS 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Plwp_getgwindows
.Nd get thread unspilled register windows
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ft int
.Fo Plwp_getgwindows
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "lwpid_t lwpid"
.Fa "gwindows_t *gwins"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Plwp_getgwindows
function returns information about register windows that were not
spilled to the stack for the thread identified by
.Fa lwpid
in the process handle
.Fa P .
The argument
.Fa gwins
will be filled in with information about the register windows.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Plwp_getgwindows
function returns
.Sy 0
and
.Fa gwins
is filled in with information about the windows. Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Plwp_getgwindows
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENODATA
The process handle
.Fa P
does not have any
.Sy gwindows
information.
.It Er EBUSY
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to a live process and it is not stopped.
.It Er ENOENT
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to a live process and there is no thread with id
.Fa lwpid .
.It Er EINVAL
The process handle
.Fa P
refers to a core file and there is no thread with id
.Fa lwpid .
.El
.Sh ARCHITECTURE
The
.Fn Plwp_getgwindows
function is only available on
.Sy SPARC
platforms.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
