.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt POBJNAME 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pobjname ,
.Nm Pobjname_resolved
.Nd turn a virtual address into its mapped object
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo Pobjname
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "uintptr_t addr"
.Fa "char *buffer"
.Fa "size_t bufsize"
.Fc
.Ft char *
.Fo Pobjname_resolved
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "uintptr_t addr"
.Fa "char *buffer"
.Fa "size_t bufsize"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pobjname
and
.Fn Pobjname_resolved
functions attempt to determine the underlying mapped object that
contains the virtual address
.Fa addr
in the process handle
.Fa P .
.Pp
A program consists of multiple memory mappings.
Some are provided by the system, such as the stack and the heap.
While others are created through explicit calls to
.Xr mmap 2
or brought in by the run-time link-editor due to dependencies
specified in binaries and libraries.
.Pp
If
.Fa addr
is contained in a mapping, then up to
.Fa bufsize
characters, including the null terminator,
of the name of the corresponding object will be written into
.Fa buffer .
The
.Fn Pobjname_resolved
function attempts to resolve the object to a full file system path.
If the full file-system path cannot be determined, then it will fall back
to the name that the run-time link-editor has for that mapping, which is
the behavior of
.Fn Pobjname .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pobjname
and
.Fn Pobjname_resolved
functions return
.Fa buffer .
Otherwise,
.Dv NULL
is returned to indicate the object name could not be found.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmap 2 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pobject_iter 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
