.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PPLATFORM 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pplatform
.Nd get platform string
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libproc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libproc.h
.Ft "char *"
.Fo Pplatform
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "char *buffer"
.Fa "size_t bufsize"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pplatform
function determines the name of the platform for the process handle
.Fa P .
Up to
.Fa bufsize
characters, including the null terminator, will be copied into
.Fa buffer .
.Pp
The platform is the value reported by the
.Sy -s
option to
.Xr uname 1 .
For example, on x86 systems, the value will be
.Sy i86pc .
.Pp
Note, process handles that correspond to a file, created by
.Xr Pgrab_file 3PROC ,
will not report a platform and the
.Fn Pplatform
function will fail.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pplatform
function returns
.Fa buffer .
Otherwise,
.Dv NULL
is returned,
.Sy errno
is set, and
.Fa buffer
is not updated.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Pplatform
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENODATA
.Fa P
refers to a core file and there is no
.Sy NT_PLATFORM
ELF note available.
.It Er EFAULT
.Fa P
refers to a live process and
.Fa buffer
is an invalid address.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr uname 1 ,
.Xr sysinfo 2 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
