.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PR_GETSOCKNAME 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm pr_getsockname
.Nd inject getsockname library call into victim process
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo pr_getsockname
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "int sock"
.Fa "struct sockaddr *name"
.Fa "socklen_t *namelen"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn pr_getsockname
function injects the
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET
library call into the target process
.Fa P
by means of the agent LWP.
If the process handle
.Fa P
is the value
.Dv NULL
then this will be equivalent to calling
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET
on the currently running process.
.Pp
The arguments
.Fa sock ,
.Fa name ,
and
.Fa namelen
have the same meaning as in
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET .
See
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET
for the full description and purpose of the
.Sy getsockname
library call and its arguments.
.Pp
The
.Fn pr_getsockname
function only works on active processes. Process handles that correspond
to core files, zombie processes, or ELF objects do not support library
call injection.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn pr_getsockname
function's return value is that described in
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to
.Er ENOSYS
to indicate that the library call could not be injected.
.Sh ERRORS
For the full list of errors see the
.Sy ERRORS
section in
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET .
.Pp
The
.Fn pr_getsockname
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOSYS
An error occurred while trying to invoke the agent LWP and inject a
library call in the process handle
.Fa P
or the process handle
.Fa P
does not support library call injection.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr getsockname 3SOCKET ,
.Xr proc 4
