.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2020 OmniOS Community Edition (OmniOSce) Association.
.\"
.Dd January 6, 2020
.Dt PROC_FDINFO_MISC 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm proc_fdinfo_misc
.Nd retrieve a miscellaneous information item from a prfdinfo_t structure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft const void *
.Fo proc_fdinfo_misc
.Fa "const prfdinfo_t *info"
.Fa "uint_t type"
.Fa "size_t *len"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn proc_fdinfo_misc
function is a convenient way to retrieve a miscellaneous information item from
a
.Vt prfdinfo_t
structure.
.Pp
If a miscellaneous item of type
.Fa type
is found, then this function returns a pointer to the data for that item and
updates
.Fa len
with the item's size.
.Pp
In the case that there are multiple instances of the requested type in the
structure, only the first is returned.
To see all instances, use the
.Xr proc_fdinfowalk 3PROC
function.
.Pp
The definition of the
.Vt prfdinfo_t
structure may be found in the
.Sx fdinfo
section of
.Xr proc 4 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn proc_fdinfo_misc
function returns a pointer to the first instance of data with the requested
type.
Otherwise,
.Sy NULL
is returned to indicate that the item was not found.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc_fdinfowalk 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
