.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PROC_LWP_IN_SET 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm proc_lwp_in_set ,
.Nm proc_lwp_range_valid
.Nd test and validate thread ranges
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.Ft int
.Fo proc_lwp_in_set
.Fa "const char *set"
.Fa "lwpid_t lwpid"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo proc_lwp_range_valid
.Fa "const char *set"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn proc_lwp_in_set
and
.Fn proc_lwp_range_valid
functions provide means for testing the validity of thread ranges and
whether a thread is in a range.
.Pp
A thread range is a series of one or more series of range identifiers
which describe a collection of threads.
These are often used by programs such as
.Xr pbind 1M ,
.Xr pstack 1 ,
.Xr prun 1 ,
.Xr pstop 1 ,
and others as a means for a user to specify a selection of threads from
inside of a process.
.Pp
More formally, the thread range may be described as:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
lwp_range[,lwp_range]*
.Ed
.Pp
An LWP range may be specified as one of the following four strings.
The following table shows the string formats and the corresponding set of
valid threads that match it:
.Bl -column -offset indent ".Sy n-m" "n <= lwpid <= m"
.It Sy -n Ta lwpid <= n
.It Sy n-m Ta n <= lwpid <= m
.It Sy n- Ta lwpid >= n
.It Sy n Ta lwpid == n
.El
.Pp
For example, the thread range
.Sy -2,4-5,7,8-
matches thread with IDs 0-2, 4-5, 7, and any thread id 8 or greater.
.Pp
The
.Fn proc_lwp_range_valid
function determines whether or not the character string
.Fa set
is a valid thread range based on the rules above.
Note, the empty string, the
.Dv NULL
pointer, or otherwise are not valid.
.Pp
The
.Fn proc_lwp_in_set
function determines whether the thread identifier
.Fa lwpid
is contained in the set described by
.Fa set .
If
.Fa set
is the
.Dv NULL
pointer, then every thread matches the set.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fa proc_lwp_in_set
function returns
.Sy 1
to indicate
.Fa lwpid
is in
.Fa set .
Otherwise,
.Sy 0
is returned to indicate that
.Fa lwpid
is not in
.Fa set .
.Pp
Upon successful completion, the
.Fa proc_lwp_range_valid
function returns
.Sy 0
to indicate
.Fa set
is valid.
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned to indicate that the set is invalid.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
