.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PROC_STR2FLTSET 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm proc_str2fltset ,
.Nm proc_str2sigset ,
.Nm proc_str2sysset
.Nd convert a string to a fault, signal, or system call set
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft char *
.Fo proc_str2fltset
.Fa "const char *str"
.Fa "const char *delim"
.Fa "int members"
.Fa "fltset_t *set"
.Fc
.Ft char *
.Fo proc_str2sigset
.Fa "const char *str"
.Fa "const char *delim"
.Fa "int members"
.Fa "sigset_t *set"
.Fc
.Ft char *
.Fo proc_str2sysset
.Fa "const char *str"
.Fa "const char *delim"
.Fa "int members"
.Fa "sysset_t *set"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn proc_str2fltset ,
.Fn proc_str2sigset ,
and
.Fn proc_str2sysset
functions translate a character string,
.Fa str ,
into the corresponding fault set, signal set, and system call set
respectively.
.Pp
The character string
.Fa delim
will be used as a delimiter between subsequent entries in the string
.Fa set .
The value of
.Fa members
determines whether the entries in
.Fa str
enable or disable entries in
.Fa set .
If
.Fa members
is zero, then
.Fa set
is filled in entirely and then each entry in
.Fa str
causes the corresponding entry to be disabled in
.Fa set.
If
.Fa members
is non-zero, then
.Fa set
is empty initially and for each entry in
.Fa str
the corresponding entry in
.Fa set
will be enabled.
.Pp
If an unknown entry is encountered in
.Fa str
then the conversion will fail and a pointer to the first unknown
character will be returned.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion,
.Dv NULL
is returned and
.Fa set
is filled in.
Otherwise, a pointer to the first unknown character is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn proc_str2fltset ,
.Fn proc_str2sigset ,
and
.Fn proc_str2sigset
functions will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
.Fa str
contains an unrecognized set name.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc_fltname 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_fltset2str 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_signame 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_sigset2str 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_str2flt 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_str2sig 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_str2sys 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_sysname 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_sysset2str 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
