.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PROC_ARG_PSINFO 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm proc_arg_psinfo ,
.Nm proc_arg_xpsinfo
.Nd process ps information utility function
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft pid_t
.Fo proc_arg_psinfo
.Fa "const char *arg"
.Fa "int oflag"
.Fa "psinfo_t *psp"
.Fa "int *perr"
.Fc
.Ft pid_t
.Fo proc_arg_xpsinfo
.Fa "const char *arg"
.Fa "int oflag"
.Fa "psinfo_t *psp"
.Fa "int *perr"
.Fa "const char **lwps"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn proc_arg_psinfo
and
.Fn proc_arg_xpsinfo
functions are utility functions which process an argument that may
refer to a currently active process or core file and attempts to obtain the
.Xr ps 1
information from the process or core and fills it into
.Fa psp .
.Pp
The string
.Fa arg
contains the name of something to try and open.
How it is interpreted depends on the value of
.Fa oflag .
The following values may be passed in as a bitwise-exclusive-OR for
.Fa oflag :
.Bl -tag -width Dv -offset indent
.It Dv PR_ARG_PIDS
Allows
.Fa arg
to specify process IDs and /proc arguments.
.It Dv PR_ARG_CORES
Allows
.Fa arg
to specify core files.
.It PR_ARG_ANY
Encompasses all of the previous opens.
.El
.Pp
The argument
.Fa perr
must be a
.Pf non- Dv NULL
pointer and in the event that the
.Fn proc_arg_psinfo
or
.Fn proc_arg_xpsinfo
functions fail, then
.Fa perr
will be updated with a more detailed error number.
.Pp
If the
.Fa lwps
argument is
.Pf non- Dv NULL ,
then if there is a thread specification present in
.Fa arg ,
it will be validated to see if it is a valid range and then a pointer to
the start of the thread specification will be stored in
.Fa lwps .
For more information on determining process range validity, see
.Xr proc_lwp_range_valid 3PROC
for more information on valid and invalid tread specifications.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn proc_arg_psinfo
and
.Fn proc_arg_xpsinfo
functions return the process identifier and fill in
.Fa psp
with the ps information of the process.
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Fa perr
is filled in with the error's details.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of additional errors, see the
.Sy ERRORS
section in
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC .
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er G_BADLWPS
.Fa arg
contains an invalid thread specification.
.It Er G_NOCORE
.Dv PR_ARG_CORES
was set and no core file could be found corresponding to
.Fa arg .
.It Er G_NOPROC
.Dv PR_ARG_PIDS
was set and no process could be found corresponding to
.Fa arg .
.It Er G_NOPROCORCORE
Both
.Dv PR_ARG_CORES
and
.Dv PR_ARG_NOPROC
were set and no process or core file could be found corresponding to
.Fa arg .
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
.Sy MT-Safe
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ps 1 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pgrab 3PROC ,
.Xr Pgrab_core 3PROC ,
.Xr Prelease 3PROC ,
.Xr proc_lwp_range_valid 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
