'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PS_PGLOBAL_LOOKUP 3PROC "Jan 16, 1998"
.SH NAME
ps_pglobal_lookup, ps_pglobal_sym \- look up a symbol in the symbol table of
the load object in the target process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <proc_service.h>

\fBps_err_e\fR \fBps_pglobal_lookup\fR(\fBstruct ps_prochandle *\fR\fIph\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIobject_name\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIsym_name\fR,
     \fBpsaddr_t *\fR\fIsym_addr\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBps_err_e\fR \fBps_pglobal_sym\fR(\fBstruct ps_prochandle *\fR\fIph\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIobject_name\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIsym_name\fR,
     \fBps_sym_t *\fR\fIsym\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBps_pglobal_lookup()\fR looks up the symbol \fIsym_name\fR in the symbol
table of the load object \fIobject_name\fR in the target process identified by
\fIph\fR. It returns the symbol's value as an address in the target process in
\fB*\fR\fIsym_addr.\fR
.sp
.LP
\fBps_pglobal_sym()\fR looks up the symbol \fIsym_name\fR in the symbol table
of the load object \fIobject_name\fR in the target process identified by
\fIph\fR. It returns the symbol table entry in \fB*\fR\fIsym.\fR The value in
the symbol table entry is the symbol's value as an address in the target
process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPS_OK\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The call completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPS_NOSYM\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The specified symbol was not found.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPS_ERR\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The function did not return successfully.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBkill\fR(2), \fBlibc_db\fR(3LIB), \fBproc_service\fR(3PROC),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBthreads\fR(5)
