.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PSETWAPT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Psetwapt
.Nd set a watchpoint in a process
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libproc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Psetwapt
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const prwatch_t *wp"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Psetwapt
function adds a watchpoint to the process handle
.Fa P .
Allowing the hardware to generate a trap when the specified area is
accessed.
The watchpoint's parameters are described in
.Fa wp .
For more information on watchpoints and the
.Sy prwatch_t
structure, see the
.Sy PCWATCH
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
The watched area will persist until a subsequent call to
.Xr Pdelwapt 3PROC .
.Pp
Note, only active processes support watchpoints.
It is an error to call this function on process handles that correspond to core
files, zombie processes, or files.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Psetwapt
function returns
.Sy 0
and installs the watchpoint in
.Fa P .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Psetwapt
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er ENOENT
.Fa P
does not refer to an active process.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pdelwapt 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
