.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PSETPRIV 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Psetpriv
.Nd set process privileges
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Psetpriv
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "prpriv_t *pprv"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Psetpriv
function updates the privileges of the process handle
.Fa P
to the set described by
.Fa pprv .
The updated privilege set has restrictions on what it may change for a
process which are documented in the
.Sy PCSPRIV
section of
.Xr proc 4 .
In addition, the definition of the
.Sy prpriv_t
structure is described in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The current privilege set for the process may be obtained through a call
to
.Xr Ppriv 3PROC .
.Pp
Note, the privilege set may only be updated for active processes.
Process handles which correspond to core files, zombie processes, and
files, may not have their privilege sets updated.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Psetpriv
function returns
.Sy 0
and updates the privilege sets of the process.
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of possible errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
The
.Fn Psetpriv
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EBADF
.Fa P
doesn't refer to an active process, but a core file, zombie, or a file.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Ppriv 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4 ,
.Xr privileges 5
