.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PSETFAULT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Psetfault
.Nd set fault tracing flags
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libproc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In libproc.h
.Ft void
.Fo Psetfault
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const fltset_t *set"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Psetfault
function sets the fault tracing flags on the process handle
.Fa P
to
.Fa set .
It replaces any existing fault tracing flags on the process.
These flags indicate which faults cause execution of the thread to stop.
Allowing another tool, such as a debugger, to act upon the process.
For more information on faults and the
.Sy fltset_t
structure see the
.Sy PCSFAULT
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
The current fault set for the process may be obtained through the
.Xr Pfault 3PROC
function.
.Pp
Note, only active processes may have their fault set updated.
Process handles that refer to core files, zombie processes, and files do not
have fault tracing flags and this function is a no-op on them.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pfault 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
