.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PSETSYSENTRY 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Psetsysentry ,
.Nm Psetsysexit
.Nd set system call tracing flags
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft void
.Fo Psetsysentry
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const sysset_t *set"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo Psetsysexit
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "const sysset_t *set"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Psetsysentry
and
.Fn Psetsysexit
set the system call entry and exit tracing flags respectively in the
process handle
.Fa P
to
.Fa set .
The call to
.Fn Psetsysentry
or
.Fn Psetsysexit
replaces the corresponding set of system call tracing flags entirely
with the new set.
The system call entry tracing flags cause a thread to stop on entry to the
system call and the exit tracing flags cause a thread to stop on return from the
system call, before control returns back to the user land process.
For more information on the state of the thread and for information on
manipulating the
.Sy sysset_t ,
see
.Xr proc 4 .
.Pp
Note that only active processes may have their system call tracing flags
updated.
Process handles that refer to core files, zombie processes, and files do not
have fault tracing flags and this function is a no-op on them.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr proc 4
