.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PSIGNAL 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Psignal
.Nd set signal tracing action
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft int
.Fo Psignal
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "int which"
.Fa "int stop"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Psignal
function sets the signal tracing flag for the process handle
.Fa P .
If
.Fa stop
is
.Sy non-zero
it causes the process handle to stop threads that encounter the signal
.Fa which .
If
.Fa stop
is
.Sy zero ,
then it disables tracing for the signal
.Fa which .
.Pp
The signal constants, representing valid values for
.Fa which ,
can be found in
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD.
The signal
.Dv SIGKILL
may not be stopped.
.Pp
Note, only active processes may have their signal tracing flags updated.
Process handles that refer to core files, zombie processes, and files do
not have signal tracing flags.
Calling this function on them is an error.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Psignal
function returns the previous disposition of the signal
.Fa which .
It returns
.Sy 1
if it was set and
.Sy 0
if not.
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
The
.Fn Psignal
function will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
.Fa which
is
.Dv SIGKILL
and
.Fa stop
is non-zero .
.Pp
.Fa which
is not a valid signal.
.It Er ENOENT
.Fa P
does not correspond to an active process.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr signal.h 3HEAD ,
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Psetsignal 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
