.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PSYNC 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Psync ,
.Nm Lsync
.Nd synchronize cached tracing flags and modifications
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft void
.Fo Psync
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Ft void
.Fo Lsync
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Psync
function synchronizes modifications to the process handle
.Fa P
back to the underlying active process. The
.Fn Psync
function ensures that any outstanding process holds, register
modifications, signal injections, and modifications to the various fault
and system call tracing flags are taken care of.
.Pp
Normally this function is not required as other library routines take
care of synchronizing this state out to the process when it is required.
If the underlying /proc file system routines are used outside of the
library, calling this function may be required.
.Pp
The
.Fn Psync
function is only meaningful for active processes. It will do nothing on
process handles that refer to core files, zombie processes, and ELF
objects.
.Pp
The
.Fn Lsync
function is equivalent to the
.Fn Psync
function, except rather than operating on the entire process and its
representative thread, it instead operates on the thread handle
.Fa L .
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pfault 3PROC ,
.Xr Pputareg 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetfault 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetsignal 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetsysentry 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetsysexit 3PROC ,
.Xr Psignal 3PROC ,
.Xr Psysentry 3PROC ,
.Xr Psysexit 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
