.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PUPDATE_SYMS 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pupdate_syms
.Nd update cached symbol tables
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Lb libproc
.In libproc.h
.Ft void
.Fo Pupdate_syms
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pupdate_syms
function is used to update all of the cached symbol tables in the
process handle
.Fa P :
updating, invalidating, and caching new symbol tables as appropriate for
functions such as
.Xr Psymbol_iter 3PROC .
This is generally called in response to activity by the run-time
link-editor. In general, the
.Sy libproc
library takes care of managing the need to call this function;
however, debuggers, introspection tools, and others that are
interposing on rtld activity may need to call this function. Note that
the
.Fn Pupdate_syms
function is only meaningful for active processes. It will do nothing on
process handles that refer to core files, zombie processes, and ELF
objects.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pupdate_maps 3PROC
