.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 11, 2016
.Dt PXECBKPT 3PROC
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm Pxecbkpt ,
.Nm Pxecwapt ,
.Nm Lxecbkpt ,
.Nm Lxecwapt
.Nd step over a breakpoint or watchpoint
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Ft int
.Fo Pxecbkpt
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "ulong_t saved"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Pxecwapt
.Fa "struct ps_prochandle *P"
.Fa "ulong_t saved"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Lxecbkpt
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fa "ulong_t saved"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo Lxecwapt
.Fa "struct ps_lwphandle *L"
.Fa "ulong_t saved"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn Pxecbkpt
and
.Fn Pxecwapt
functions step over a breakpoint or watchpoint respectively in the
corresponding process handle
.Fa P .
The functions execute the original instruction that was at the current
program counter, provided by
.Fa saved ,
and then leave the process stopped at the next instruction.
.Pp
The process must be stopped at the time that the
.Fn Pxecbkpt
or
.Fn Pxecwapt
functions are called.
.Pp
The
.Fn Lxecbkpt
and
.Fn Lxecwapt
functions are identical to
.Fn Pxecbkpt
and
.Fn Pxecwapt ,
respectively; except rather than operating on the process as a
whole, they operate on the thread handle
.Fa L .
These functions only require that the thread represented by
.Fa L
be stopped and not the entire process.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn Pxecbkpt ,
.Fn Pxecwapt ,
.Fn Lxecbkpt ,
and
.Fn Lxecwapt
functions return
.Sy 0
having executed the original instruction at
.Fa saved .
Otherwise,
.Sy -1
is returned and
.Sy errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Sh ERRORS
For a full list of errors see the
.Sy DIAGNOSTICS
section in
.Xr proc 4 .
The
.Fn Pxecbkpt ,
.Fn Pxecwapt ,
.Fn Lxecbkpt ,
and
.Fn Lxecwapt
functions will fail if:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EBUSY
Either
.Fa P
or
.Fa L
is not stopped.
.El
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh MT-LEVEL
See
.Sy LOCKING
in
.Xr libproc 3LIB .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr libproc 3LIB ,
.Xr Pdelbkpt 3PROC ,
.Xr Pdelwapt 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetbkpt 3PROC ,
.Xr Psetwapt 3PROC ,
.Xr proc 4
