'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NICE 3UCB "Oct 30, 2007"
.SH NAME
nice \- change priority of a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ...
#include<unistd.h>

\fBint\fR \fBnice\fR(\fIincr\fR)
\fBint\fR \fIincr\fR;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The scheduling priority of the process is augmented by \fIincr\fR. Positive
priorities get less service than normal. Priority 10 is recommended to users
who wish to execute long-running programs without undue impact on system
performance.
.sp
.LP
Negative increments are illegal, except when specified by the privileged user.
The priority is limited to the range \(mi20 (most urgent) to 20 (least).
Requests for values above or below these limits result in the scheduling
priority being set to the corresponding limit.
.sp
.LP
The priority of a process is passed to a child process by \fBfork\fR(2). For a
privileged process to return to normal priority from an unknown state,
\fBnice()\fR should be called successively with arguments \(mi40 (goes to
priority \(mi20 because of truncation), 20 (to get to 0), then 0 (to maintain
compatibility with previous versions of this call).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBnice()\fR returns \fB0\fR. Otherwise, a value of
\fB\(mi1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The priority is not changed if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The value of \fIincr\fR specified was negative, and the effective user \fBID\fR
is not the privileged user.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnice\fR(1), \fBrenice\fR(1), \fBfork\fR(2), \fBpriocntl\fR(2),
\fBgetpriority\fR(3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written on
BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries or in
multi-threaded applications is unsupported.
