'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License. When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with
.\" the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PSIGNAL 3UCB "Oct 30, 2007"
.SH NAME
psignal, sys_siglist \- system signal messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fB/usr/ucb/cc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ...

\fBvoid\fR \fBpsignal\fR(\fIsig\fR, \fIs\fR)
\fBunsigned\fR \fIsig\fR;
\fBchar *\fR\fIs\fR;
\fBchar *\fR\fIsys_siglist\fR[];
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBpsignal()\fR produces a short message on the standard error file describing
the indicated signal. First the argument string \fIs\fR is printed, then a
colon, then the name of the signal and a \fBNEWLINE.\fR Most usefully, the
argument string is the name of the program which incurred the signal. The
signal number should be from among those found in \fB<signal.h>\fR.
.sp
.LP
To simplify variant formatting of signal names, the vector of message strings
\fBsys_siglist\fR is provided; the signal number can be used as an index in
this table to get the signal name without the newline. The define \fBNSIG\fR
defined in \fB<signal.h>\fR is the number of messages provided for in the
table; it should be checked because new signals may be added to the system
before they are added to the table.
.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBperror\fR(3C), \fBsignal\fR(3C)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Use of these interfaces should be restricted to only applications written on
BSD platforms.  Use of these interfaces with any of the system libraries or in
multi-thread applications is unsupported.
