'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH IOCTL 9E "Dec 3, 1996"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control a character device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/cred.h>
#include <sys/file.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/errno.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>



\fBint prefix\fR\fBioctl\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fIdev\fR, \fBint\fR \fIcmd\fR, \fBintptr_t\fR \fIarg\fR, \fBint\fR \fImode\fR,
     \fBcred_t *\fR\fIcred_p\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIrval_p\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
Architecture independent level 1 (DDI/DKI). This entry point is \fBoptional\fR.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Device number.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcmd\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Command argument the driver  \fBioctl()\fR routine interprets as the  operation
to be performed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIarg\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Passes parameters between a user program and the driver.  When used with
terminals, the argument is the address of a user program structure containing
driver or hardware settings.  Alternatively, the argument may be a value that
has meaning only to the driver. The interpretation of the argument is driver
dependent and usually depends on the command type; the kernel does not
interpret the argument.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImode\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A bit field that contains:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Information set when the device was opened. The driver may use it to determine
if the device was opened for reading or writing. The driver can make this
determination by checking the  \fBFREAD\fR or \fBFWRITE\fR flags. See the
\fIflag\fR argument description of the  \fBopen()\fR routine for further
values.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Information on whether the caller is a 32-bit or 64-bit thread.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
In some circumstances address space information about the \fIarg\fR argument.
See below.
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcred_p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Pointer to the  user credential structure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrval_p\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
Pointer to return value for calling process.  The driver may elect to set the
value which is valid only if the  \fBioctl()\fR succeeds.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl()\fR provides character-access drivers with an alternate entry point
that can be used for almost any operation other than a simple transfer of
characters in and out of buffers. Most often,  \fBioctl()\fR is used to control
device hardware parameters and establish the protocol used by the driver in
processing data.
.sp
.LP
The kernel determines that this is a character device, and looks up the entry
point routines in  \fBcb_ops\fR(9S). The kernel then packages the user request
and arguments as integers and passes them to the driver's  \fBioctl()\fR
routine. The kernel itself does no processing of the passed command, so it is
up to the user program and the driver to agree on what the arguments mean.
.sp
.LP
I/O control commands are used to implement the terminal settings passed from
\fBttymon\fR(1M) and  \fBstty\fR(1), to format disk devices, to implement a
trace driver for debugging, and to clean up character queues. Since the kernel
does not interpret the command type that defines the operation, a driver is
free to define its own commands.
.sp
.LP
Drivers that use an  \fBioctl()\fR routine typically have a command to ``read''
the current  \fBioctl()\fR settings, and at least one other that sets new
settings. Drivers can use the \fImode\fR argument to determine if the device
unit was opened for reading or writing, if necessary, by checking the
\fBFREAD\fR or  \fBFWRITE\fR setting.
.sp
.LP
If the third argument,  \fIarg\fR, is a pointer to a user buffer, the driver
can call the  \fBcopyin\fR(9F) and \fBcopyout\fR(9F) functions to transfer data
between kernel and user space.
.sp
.LP
Other kernel subsystems may need to call into the drivers \fBioctl()\fR
routine.  Drivers that intend to allow their \fBioctl()\fR routine to be used
in this way should publish the \fBddi-kernel-ioctl\fR property on the
associated devinfo node(s).
.sp
.LP
When the \fBddi-kernel-ioctl\fR property is present, the \fImode\fR argument is
used to pass address space information about \fIarg\fR through to the driver.
If the driver expects \fIarg\fR to contain a buffer address, and the
\fBFKIOCTL\fR flag is set in \fImode\fR, then the driver should assume that it
is being handed a kernel buffer address.  Otherwise, \fIarg\fR may be the
address of a buffer from a user program. The driver can use
\fBddi_copyin\fR(9F) and \fBddi_copyout\fR(9F) perform the correct type of copy
operation for either kernel or user address spaces.  See the example on
\fBddi_copyout\fR(9F).
.sp
.LP
Drivers have to interact with 32-bit and 64-bit applications. If a device
driver shares data structures with the application (for example, through
exported kernel memory) and the driver gets recompiled for a 64-bit kernel but
the application remains 32-bit, binary layout of any data structures will be
incompatible if they contain longs or pointers. The driver needs to know
whether there is a model mismatch between the current thread and the kernel and
take necessary action. The \fImode\fR argument has additional bits set to
determine the C Language Type Model which the current thread expects.
\fImode\fR has \fBFILP32\fR set if the current thread expects 32-bit (
\fIILP32\fR) semantics, or \fBFLP64\fR if the current thread expects 64-bit (
\fILP64\fR) semantics. \fImode\fR is used in combination with
\fBddi_model_convert_from\fR(9F) and the \fBFMODELS\fR mask to determine
whether there is a data model mismatch between the current thread and the
device driver (see the example below). The device driver might have to adjust
the shape of data structures before exporting them to a user thread which
supports a different data model.
.sp
.LP
To implement I/O control commands for a driver the following two steps are
required:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Define the I/O control command names and the associated value in the
driver's header and comment the commands.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Code the  \fBioctl()\fR routine in the driver that defines the functionality
for each I/O control command name that is in the header.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The  \fBioctl()\fR routine is coded with instructions on the proper action to
take for each command. It is commonly a  \fBswitch\fR statement, with each
\fBcase\fR definition corresponding to an  \fBioctl()\fR name to identify the
action that should be taken. However, the command passed to the driver by the
user process is an integer value associated with the command name in the
header.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBioctl()\fR should return  \fB0\fR on success, or the appropriate error
number. The driver may also set the value returned to the calling process
through \fIrval_p\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR\fBioctl()\fR entry point
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of the \fBioctl()\fR entry point and how to support
32-bit and 64-bit applications with the same device driver.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct passargs32 {
        int len;
        caddr32_t addr;
};

struct passargs {
        int len;
        caddr_t addr;
};

xxioctl(dev_t dev, int cmd, intptr_t arg, int mode,
    cred_t *credp, int *rvalp) {
        struct passargs pa;

#ifdef  _MULTI_DATAMODEL
        switch (ddi_model_convert_from(mode & FMODELS)) {
            case DDI_MODEL_ILP32:
            {
                struct passargs32 pa32;

                ddi_copyin(arg, &pa32, sizeof (struct passargs32),\e
                mode);
                pa.len = pa32.len;
                pa.address = pa32.address;
                break;
            }
            case DDI_MODEL_NONE:
                ddi_copyin(arg, &pa, sizeof (struct passargs),\e
                mode);
                break;
        }
#else /* _MULTI_DATAMODEL */
        ddi_copyin(arg, &pa, sizeof (struct passargs), mode);
#endif  /* _MULTI_DATAMODEL */

        do_ioctl(&pa);
        .\|.\|.\|.
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstty\fR(1), \fBttymon\fR(1M), \fBdkio\fR(7I), \fBfbio\fR(7I),
\fBtermio\fR(7I), \fBopen\fR(9E), \fBput\fR(9E), \fBsrv\fR(9E),
\fBcopyin\fR(9F), \fBcopyout\fR(9F), \fBddi_copyin\fR(9F),
\fBddi_copyout\fR(9F), \fBddi_model_convert_from\fR(9F), \fBcb_ops\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
Non-STREAMS driver  \fBioctl()\fR routines must make sure that user data is
copied into or out of the kernel address space explicitly using
\fBcopyin\fR(9F), \fBcopyout\fR(9F), \fBddi_copyin\fR(9F), or
\fBddi_copyout\fR(9F), as appropriate.
.sp
.LP
It is a severe error to simply dereference pointers to the user address space,
even when in user context.
.sp
.LP
Failure to use the appropriate copying routines can result in panics under load
on some platforms, and reproducible panics on others.
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
STREAMS drivers do not have  \fBioctl()\fR routines. The stream head converts
I/O control commands to  \fBM_IOCTL\fR messages, which are handled by the
driver's  \fBput\fR(9E) or \fBsrv\fR(9E) routine.
