.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Mar 24, 2017
.Dt MAC_CAPAB_TRANSCEIVER 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac_capab_transciever ,
.Nm mct_info ,
.Nm mct_read
.Nd MAC capability for networking transceivers
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Vt typedef struct mac_capab_transceiver mac_capab_transceiver_t;
.Ft int
.Fo "mct_info"
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "uint_t id"
.Fa "mac_transceiver_info_t *infop"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo mct_read
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "uint_t id"
.Fa "uint_t page"
.Fa "void *buf"
.Fa "size_t nbytes"
.Fa "off_t offset"
.Fa "size_t *nread"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
This interface is still evolving in illumos.
API and ABI stability is
not guaranteed.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa driver
A pointer to the driver's private data that was passed in via the
.Sy m_pdata
member of the
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure to the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function.
.It Fa id
An integer value indicating which transceiver is being inquired about.
.It Fa infop
An opaque structure which is used to set information about the
transceiver.
.It Fa page
A value that indicates which page from the i2c bus is being requested.
.It Fa buf
A pointer to which data should be written to when reading from the
device.
.It Fa nbytes
A value indicating the number of bytes being asked to read into
.Fa buf .
.It Fa offset
A value indicating the offset into the page to start reading data.
.It Fa nread
A value to be updated by the driver with the number of successfully read
bytes.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_TRANSCEIVER
capability allows for GLDv3 networking device drivers to provide
information to the system about their transceiver.
Implementing this capability is optional.
For more information on how to handle capabilities and how to indicate
that a capability is not supported, see
.Xr mc_getcapab 9E .
.Pp
This capability should be implemented if the device in question supports
a Small Form Factor (SFF) transceiver.
These are more commonly known by names such as SFP, SFP+, SFP28, QSFP+,
and QSFP28.
This interface does not apply to traditional copper Ethernet phys.
These transceivers provide standardized information over the i2c bus at
specific pages.
.Ss Supported Standards
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy INF-8074
The
.Sy INF-8084
standard was the original multiple source agreement (MSA) for SFP
devices.
It proposed the original series of management pages at i2c page 0xa0.
This page contained up to 512 bytes, however, only the first
96 bytes are standardized.
Bytes 97 to 127 are reserved for the vendor.
The remaining bytes are reserved by the specification.
The management page was subsequently adopted by SFP+ devices.
.It Sy SFF-8472
The
.Sy SFF-8472
standard extended the original SFP MSA.
This standard added a second i2c page at 0xa2, while maintaining the
original page at 0xa0.
The page at 0xa0 is now explicitly 256 bytes.
The page at 0xa2 is also 256 bytes.
This standard was also adopted for all SFP28 parts, which are commonly
used in transceivers for 25 Gb/s Ethernet.
.It Sy SFF-8436
The
.Sy SFF-8436
standard was developed for QSFP+ transceivers, which involve the
bonding of 4 SFP+ links.
QSFP+ is commonly used in the transceivers for 40 Gb/s Ethernet.
This standard uses i2c page 0xa0 for read-only identification purposes.
The lower half of the page is used for control, while the upper 128
bytes is similar to the
.Sy INF-8084
and
.Sy SFF-8472
standards.
.It Sy SFF-8636
The
.Sy SFF-8636
standard is a common management standard which is shared between both
SAS and QSFP+ 28 Gb/s transceivers.
The latter transceiver is commonly found in 100 Gb/s Ethernet.
The transceiver's memory map is similar to that found in the
.Sy SFF-8436
specification.
The identification information is found in the upper 128
bytes of page 0xa0, while the lower part of the page is used for
control, among other purposes.
.El
.Pp
The following table summarizes the above information.
.Bl -column "Sy SFF-8636" "1 Gb/s, 10 Gb/s, 25 Gb/s" "256 bytes" "0xa0, 0xa2" -offset indent
.Em "Standard" Ta Em Speeds Ta Em Size Ta Em i2c pages
.It INF-8074 Ta 1 Gb/s, 10 Gb/s Ta 128 bytes Ta 0xa0
.It SFF-8472 Ta 1 Gb/s, 10 Gb/s, 25 GB/s Ta 512 bytes Ta 0xa0, 0xa2
.It SFF-8436 Ta 40 Gb/s Ta 256 bytes Ta 0xa0
.It SFF-8636 Ta 100 Gb/s Ta 256 bytes Ta 0xa0
.El
.Ss MAC Capability Structure
When the device driver's
.Xr mc_getcapab 9E
function entry point is called with the capability requested set to
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_TRANSCEIVER ,
then the value of the capability structure is the following structure:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
typedef struct mac_capab_transceiver {
	uint_t	mct_flags;
	uint_t	mct_ntransceiveres;
	int	(*mct_info)(void *driver, uint_t id,
		    mac_transceiver_info_t *infop),
	int	(*mct_read)(void *driver, uint_t id, uint_t page,
		    void *buf, size_t nbytes, off_t offset,
		    size_t *nread)
} mac_capab_transceiver_t;
.Ed
.Pp
If the device driver supports the
.Sy MAC_CAPAB_TRANSCEIVER
capability, it should fill in this structure, based on the following
rules:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy mct_flags
The
.Vt mct_flags
member is used to negotiate extensions with the driver.
MAC will set the value of
.Vt mct_flags
to include all of the currently known extensions.
The driver should intersect this list with the set that they actually
support.
At this time, no such features are defined and the driver should set the
member to
.Sy 0 .
.It Sy mct_ntransceivers
The value of
.Sy mct_ntransceivers
indicates that the number of transceivers present in the device.
For most devices, it is expected that this value will be set to one.
However, some devices do support multiple transceivers and PHYs that
show up behind a single logical MAC.
.Pp
It is expected that this value will not change across the lifetime of
the device being attached.
It is important to remember that this represents the total possible
number of transceivers in the device, not how many are currently present
and powered on.
.Pp
The number of transceivers will influence the
.Fa id
argument used in the
.Fn mct_info
and
.Fn mct_read
entry points.
The transceiver IDs will start at zero and go to the value of
.Fa mct_ntransceivers - 1 .
It is up to the driver to keep the mapping between actual transceivers
and the transceiver identifiers consistent.
.It Sy mct_info
The
.Fn mct_info
entry point is used to set basic information about the transceiver.
This entry point is
.Em required .
If the device driver cannot implement this entry point, then it should
not indicate that it supports the capability.
.Pp
The
.Fn mct_info
entry point should fill in information about the transceiver with an
identifier of
.Fa id .
See the description above of
.Sy mct_ntransceivers
for more information on how the IDs are determined.
.Pp
The driver should then proceed to fill in basic information by calling
the functions described in the section
.Sx Information Functions .
After successfully calling all of the functions, the driver should
return
.Sy 0 .
Othewrise, it should return the appropriate error number.
For a full list of error numbers, see
.Xr Intro 2 .
Common values are:
.Bl -tag -width Er -offset width
.It Er EINVAL
The transceiver identifier
.Fa id
was invalid.
.It Er ENOTSUP
This instance of the devices does not support a transceiver.
For example, a device which sometimes has copper PHYs and therefore this
instance does not have any PHYs.
.It Er EIO
An error occurred while trying to read device registers.
For example, an FM-aware device had an error.
.El
.It Sy mct_read
The
.Fn mct_read
function is used to read information from a transceiver's i2c bus.
The
.Fn mct_read
entry point is an
.Em optional
entry point.
.Pp
The transceiver should first check the value of
.Fa id ,
which indicates which transceiver information is being requested.
See the description above of
.Sy mct_ntransceivers
for more information on how the IDs are determined.
.Pp
The driver should try to read up to
.Fa nbytes
of data from the i2c bus at page
.Fa page .
The driver should start reading at offset
.Fa offset .
Finally, it should update the value in
.Fa nread
with the number of bytes written to the buffer
.Fa buf .
.Pp
If for some reason the driver cannot read all of the requested bytes,
that is acceptable.
Instead it should perform a short read.
This may occur because the transceiver does not allow reads at a
requested region or the region is shorter than is common for most
devices.
.Pp
Upon successful completion, the driver should ensure that
.Fa nread
has been updated and then return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise, the driver should return the appropriate error number.
For
a full list of error numbers, see
.Xr Intro 2 .
Common values are:
.Bl -tag -width Er -offset width
.It Er EINVAL
The value of
.Fa id
represented an invalid transceiver identifier.
The transceiver i2c page
.Fa page
is not valid for this type of device.
The value of
.Fa offset
is beyond the range supported for this
.Fa page .
.It Er EIO
An error occurred while trying to read the device i2c pages.
.El
.El
.Ss Transceiver Information Functions
The
.Fn mct_info
entry point is the primary required entry point for a device driver
which supports this capability.
The information structure is opaque to the device driver.
Instead, a series of informational functions is
available to the device driver to call on the transceiver.
The device drivers should try to call and fill in as many of these as
possible.
There are two different properties that a driver can set:
.Bl -enum -offset indent
.It
Whether the transceiver is present.
.It
Whether the transceiver is usable.
.El
.Pp
To set whether or not the transceiver is present, the driver should call
.Xr mac_transceiver_info_set_present 9F .
This is used to indicate whether the transceiver is plugged in or not.
If the transceiver is a part of the NIC, then this function should
always be called with the value set to
.Dv B_TRUE .
.Pp
Finally, the driver has the ability to provide information about whether
or not the transceiver is usable or not.
A transceiver may be present, but not usable, if the hardware and
firmware support a limited number of transceivers.
To set this information, the driver should call
.Xr mac_transceiver_info_set_usable 9F .
If the transceiver is not present, then the driver should not call this
function.
.Ss Opaque Transceivers
Some devices abstract the nature of the transceiver and do not allow
direct access to the transceiver.
In this case, if the device driver still has access to enough
information to know if the transceiver is at least present, then it
should still implement the
.Fn mct_info
entry point.
.Ss Locking and Data Access
Calls to get information about the transceivers may come at the same
time as general I/O requests to the device to send or receive data.
The driver should make sure that reading data from the i2c bus of the
transceiver does not interfere with the device's functionality in this
regard.
Different locks should be used.
.Pp
On some devices, reading from the transceiver's i2c bus might cause a
disruption of service to the device.
For example, on some devices a phy reset may be required or come about
as a side effect of trying to read the device.
If any kind of disruption would be caused, then the driver
must not implement the
.Ft mct_read
entry point.
.Sh CONTEXT
The various callback functions will be called from
.Sy kernel
context.
These functions will never be called from
.Sy interrupt
context.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr Intro 2 ,
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mc_getcapab 9E ,
.Xr mac_register 9F ,
.Xr mac_transceiver_info_set_present 9F ,
.Xr mac_transceiver_info_set_usable 9F ,
.Xr mac_register 9S
.Rs
.%N INF-8074i
.%T SFP (Small Formfactor Pluggable) Interface
.%Q SFF Committee
.%O Revision 1.0
.%D May 12, 2001
.Re
.Rs
.%N SFF-8472
.%T Diagnostic Monitoring Interface for Optical Transceivers
.%O Revision 12.2
.%D November 21, 2014
.Re
.Rs
.%N SFF-8436
.%T QSFP+ 10 Gbs 4X PLUGGABLE TRANSCEIVER
.%O Revision 4.8
.%D October 31, 2013
.Re
.Rs
.%N SFF-8636
.%T Management Interface for Cabled Environments
.%O Revision 2.7
.%D January 26, 2016
.Re
