.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2016
.Dt MC_IOCTL 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mc_ioctl
.Nd device specific I/O control operation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/stream.h
.In sys/stropts.h
.In sys/ddi.h
.In sys/sunddi.h
.Ft void
.Fo prefix_m_ioctl
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "queue_t *wq"
.Fa "mblk_t *mp"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI Specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fa driver
A pointer to the driver's private data that was passed in via the
.Sy m_pdata
member of the
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure to the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function.
.It Fa wq
A pointer to a STREAMS write-side queue that the ioctl request was
received upon.
.It Fa mp
A pointer to a message block structure that contains the I/O control
request.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mc_ioctl
entry point is an optional GLDv3 entry point. It provides a means
for device-specific I/O control operations to be initiated. In general,
this entry point is not recommended for most devices and is
unimplemented.
.Pp
The I/O control interface is not like a traditional character or block
device's
.Xr ioctl 9E
entry point, rather it is a STREAMS-based I/O control operation. The
data pointer of the
.Fa mp
argument is a
.Xr iocblk 9S
structure. After handling the message, the driver will need to reply to
the message, which is usually done by using the
.Xr miocack 9F
and
.Xr miocnak 9F
functions to prepare
.Fa mp .
.Pp
The device driver can access its soft state by casting the value pointed
to in
.Fa driver .
The driver should be careful and ensure that it performs any necessary
locking to access members of that structure while processing the I/O
control operation.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Return information is not conveyed by the return value of this function, rather
it is encoded in the
.Xr iocblk 9S
structure in the
.Fa mp
argument.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example shows how a device driver might structure its
.Fn mc_ioctl
entry point.
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/stream.h>
#include <sys/stropts.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

/*
 * Note, this example merely shows the structure of this function. It does not
 * actively handle any device-specific ioctls and instead returns failure for
 * every one. This is the most common case. Note, miocnak(9F) takes care of
 * calling putnext(9F) for us.
 */
static void
example_m_ioctl(void *arg, queue_t *wq, mblk_t *mp)
{
	miocnak(wq, mp, 0, EINVAL);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ioctl 9E ,
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr put 9E ,
.Xr mac_register 9F ,
.Xr miocack 9F ,
.Xr miocnak 9F ,
.Xr putnext 9F ,
.Xr iocblk 9S ,
.Xr mac_register 9S
.Rs
.%T Writing Device Drivers
.Re
.Rs
.%T STREAMS Programming Guide
.Re
