.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2016
.Dt MC_MULTICST 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mc_multicst
.Nd add or remove multicast address from device filter
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_m_multicst
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "boolean_t add"
.Fa "const uint8_t *mac"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI Specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa driver
A pointer to the driver's private data that was passed in via the
.Sy m_pdata
member of the
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure to the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function.
.It Fa add
A boolean value that indicates whether the device driver should add the
specified address to its filter list or remove it.
.It Fa mac
A pointer to an array of bytes that contains the new multicast address being
added or removed. It is guaranteed to be at least a number of bytes long equal
to the length of the MAC plugin's address length. For Ethernet devices that
length is six bytes,
.Sy ETHERADDRL .
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mc_multicst
entry point is used to program a device driver's multicast filters. For
more background on filter management, see the
.Sx MAC Address Filter Management
section in
.Xr mac 9E .
.Pp
The device driver can optionally sanity check
.Fa mac
by making sure that it's both a valid multicast address and by checking
whether or not it's already programmed the address. Based on the value of
.Fa add ,
the driver should either add the specified address,
.Fa mac ,
or remove it from its filter tables. The device driver is not
responsible for any form of reference counting on these requests: that
is maintained by the broader framework.
.Pp
The device driver can access its own device soft state by casting the
.Fa device
pointer. The device driver should employ the appropriate locking while
updating and manipulating its filter tables and its own records. It is
recommended that device drivers always maintain a copy of the addresses
programmed into the device's filter tables so that they can more easily
recover from various device resets and errors, or handle requests to
suspend and resume the device that may result in the device registers
being cleared.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the device driver should return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise, the driver should return a positive error number to indicate
why the request failed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example shows how a device driver might structure its
.Fn mc_multicst
entry point.
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/mac_provider.h>

/*
 * Note, this example merely shows the structure of this function.
 * Different devices will have different ways to manage the set of
 * multicast MAC addresses that they can program into their filters and
 * they have different ways of keeping track of them. Like other
 * examples, this assumes that there is a lock which protects this data.
 * In this case we assume we have an array of structures that is used to
 * track each multicast entry and a count of valid entries.
 */

#define	EXAMPLE_NMULTICAST_ADDRS	100

static int
example_multicast_add(example_t *ep, const uint8_t *mac_addr)
{
	int i, ret;

	mutex_enter(&ep->ep_lock);
	for (i = 0; i < ep->ep_nmcast_addrs; i++) {
		if (bcmp(ep->ep_nmcast_addrs[i].ema_addr, mac_addr,
		    ETHERADDRL) == 0) {
			/*
			 * The address is alread in our list, so we can
			 * return and say we're done.
			 */
			mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);
			return (0);
		}
	}

	/*
	 * We need to add this multicast address to a filter, make sure
	 * we have enough space to do so.
	 */
	if (ep->ep_nmcast_addrs >= EXAMPLE_NMULTICAST_ADDRS) {
		mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);
		return (ENOSPC);
	}

	/*
	 * Program the device before we add it to our list. Assume zero
	 * means success.
	 */
	ret = example_program_add_mcast_filter(ep, mac_addr);
	if (ret == 0) {
		bcopy(mac_addr,
		    ep->ep_nmcast_addrs[ep->ep_nmcast_addrs].ema_addr,
		    ETHERADDRL);
		ep->ep_nmcast_addrs++;
	}

	mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);

	return (ret);
}

static int
example_multicast_remove(example_t *ep, const uint8_t *mac_addr)
{
	int i, ret;
	boolean_t found = B_FALSE;

	mutex_enter(&ep->ep_lock);
	for (i = 0; i < ep->ep_nmcast_addrs; i++) {
		if (bcmp(ep->ep_mcast_addrs[i].ema_addr, mac_addr,
		    ETHERADDRL) == 0) {
			found = B_TRUE;
			break;
		}
	}

	if (found == B_FALSE) {
		mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);
		return (ENOENT);
	}

	/*
	 * Assume that a return value of zero indicates that the removal
	 * was successful. Note that i still has the index of this
	 * entry.
	 */
	ret = example_program_rem_mcast_filter(ep, mac_addr);
	if (ret == 0) {
		int last = ep->ep_nmcast_addrs - 1;
		if (i != last) {
			bcopy(ep->ep_mcast_addrs[last].ema_addr,
			    ep->ep_mcast_addrs[i].ema_addr,
			    ETHERADDRL);
		}
		bzero(ep->ep_mcast_addrs[last].ema_addr,
		    ETHERADDRL);
		VERIFY(ep->ep_nmcast_addrs > 0);
		ep->ep_nmcast_addrs--;
	}

	mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);
	return (ret);
}

static int
example_m_multicst(void *arg, boolean_t add, const uint8_t *mac_addr)
{
	example_t *ep = arg;

	/*
	 * We sanity check that we've been given a multicast address.
	 */
	if ((mac_addr[0] & 0x01) == 0)
		return (EINVAL);

	if (add)
		return (example_multicast_add(ep, mac_addr);
	else
		return (example_multicast_remove(ep, mac_addr));
}
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
The device driver may return one of the following errors. While this list
is not intended to be exhaustive, it is recommended to use one of these
if possible.
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
The address
.Fa mac
is not a valid unicast address.
.It Er EIO
The driver encountered a device or transport error while trying to
update the device's state.
.It Er ENOENT
The device driver was asked to remove a multicast address that it does
not have.
.It Er ENOSPC
The driver was asked to add a multicast address; however, it has no more
filter slots available to program the entry.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mac_register 9F ,
.Xr mac_register 9S
