.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2016
.Dt MC_PROPINFO 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mc_propinfo
.Nd get information about a property
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft void
.Fo prefix_m_propinfo
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "const char *pr_name"
.Fa "mac_prop_id_t pr_num"
.Fa "mac_prop_info_handle_t hdl"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fa driver
A pointer to the driver's private data that was passed in via the
.Sy m_pdata
member of the
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure to the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function.
.It Fa pr_name
A null-terminated string that contains the name of the property.
.It Ft pr_num
The value indicates the property that the device is working with.
.It Fa hdl
A handle to use with the
.Xr mac_prop_info 9F
family of routines to indicate the property's metadata.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mc_propinfo
entry point is an optional entry point for networking device drivers
that is used to obtain metadata about a property, including its
permissions, default value, and information about valid possible values.
If the device driver does not implement either of the
.Xr mc_getprop 9E
or
.Xr mc_setprop 9E
entry points then it does not need to implement the
.Xr mc_propinfo 9E
entry point.
However, it is highly recommended that these interfaces be implemented in order
to give users and administrators of the system access to the properties of the
device.
.Pp
When the
.Fn mc_propinfo
entry point is called, the driver needs to first identify the property.
The set of possible properties and their meaning is listed in the
.Sx PROPERTIES
section of
.Xr mac 9E .
It should identify the property based on the value of
.Fa pr_num .
Most drivers will use a
.Sy switch
statement and for any property that it supports it should call the
appropriate
.Xr mac_prop_info 9F
functions to set values and then return.
When an unknown or unsupported property is encountered, generally the
.Sy default
case of the switch statement, the device driver should simply do nothing
and return.
.Pp
The special property
.Sy MAC_PROP_PRIVATE
indicates that this is a device driver specific private property.
The device driver must then look at the value of the
.Fa pr_name
argument and use
.Xr strcmp 9F
on it, comparing it to each of its private properties to identify which
one it is.
.Pp
For each property the driver has three different sets of information
that it can fill in.
The driver should try to fill in all of these that make sense, if possible.
.Bl -enum
.It
First, the driver should fill in the permissions of the property with
the
.Xr mac_prop_info_set_perm 9F
function.
These permissions indicate what the device driver supports for a given property.
For each non-private property, see the property list in
.Xr mac 9E
to see what the maximum property permissions are.
As discussed in
.Xr mac 9E ,
a device driver may have more limited permissions than the default.
For example, on some SFP-based devices, it may not be possible to change any
of the auto-negotiation properties.
.It
The driver should then fill in any default value that it has for a
property.
This is the value that the device driver sets by default if no other tuning has
been performed.
There are different functions depending on the type of the default value to
call.
They are all listed in
.Xr mac_prop_info 9F .
.It
Finally, a driver may optionally set one or more value ranges.
These are used for integer properties such as
.Sy MAC_PROP_MTU .
The driver may call
.Xr mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32 9F
to set a series of one or more inclusive ranges that describe valid
values for the property.
For example, a device that supports jumbo frames up to 9600 bytes would call
.Xr mac_prop_info_set_range_uint32 9F
to convey that it supports MTUs in the range of 1500-9600 bytes.
.El
.Pp
If the device driver needs to access its private data, it will be
available in the
.Fa driver
argument which it should cast to the appropriate structure.
From there, the device driver may need to lock the structure to ensure that
access to it is properly serialized.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn mc_propinfo
entry point does not have a return value.
Drivers should simply ignore and immediately return when encountering
unsupported and unknown properties.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example shows how a device driver might structure its
.Fn mc_propinfo
entry point.
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/mac_provider.h>

/*
 * Note, this example merely shows the structure of this function.
 * Different devices will manage their state in different ways. Like other
 * examples, this assumes that the device has state in a structure called
 * example_t and that there is a lock which keeps track of that state.
 */

static void
example_m_propinfo(void *arg, const char *pr_name, mac_prop_id_t pr_num,
    mac_prop_info_handle_t prh)
{
	uint8_t value;
	uint_t perm;

	example_t *ep = arg;

	mutex_enter(&ep->ep_lock);

	switch (pr_num) {
	/*
	 * We try to fill in as much information for each property as makes
	 * sense. In some cases, you may only be able to set the permissions.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_DUPLEX:
	case MAC_PROP_SPEED:
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, MAC_PROP_PERM_READ);
		break;

	/*
	 * The MTU is a good example of a property that has a property range.
	 * The range represents the valid values the MTU can take.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_MTU:
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, MAC_PROP_PERM_RW);
		mac_prop_info_set_range(prh, ep->ep_min_mtu, ep->ep_max_mtu);
		break;

	/*
	 * The ADV properties represent things that the device supports and
	 * can't be changed by the user. These are good examples of properties
	 * that have a default value and are read-only.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_ADV_100FDX_CAP:
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, MAC_PROP_PERM_READ);
		value = (ep->ep_link_sup_speeds & EXAMPLE_100FDX) ? 1 : 0;
		mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8(prh, value);
		break;
	case MAC_PROP_ADV_1000FDX_CAP:
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, MAC_PROP_PERM_READ);
		value = (ep->ep_link_sup_speeds & EXAMPLE_1000FDX) ? 1 : 0;
		mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8(prh, value);
		break;
	case MAC_PROP_ADV_10GFDX_CAP:
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, MAC_PROP_PERM_READ);
		value = (ep->ep_link_sup_speeds & EXAMPLE_10GDX) ? 1 : 0;
		mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8(prh, value);
		break;

	/*
	 * The EN properties represent the speeds advertised by the driver. On
	 * baseT (copper) PHYs, we allow them to be set, otherwise we don't.
	 * This driver always advertises it if supported, hence why all of these
	 * default to advertised if the link supports its.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_EN_100FDX_CAP:
		perm = ep->ep_link_type == EXAMPLE_LINK_COPPER ?
		    MAC_PROP_PERM_RW : MAC_PROP_PERM_READ;
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, perm);
		value = (ep->ep_link_sup_speeds & EXAMPLE_100FDX) ? 1 : 0;
		mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8(prh, value);
		break;
	case MAC_PROP_EN_1000FDX_CAP:
		perm = ep->ep_link_type == EXAMPLE_LINK_COPPER ?
		    MAC_PROP_PERM_RW : MAC_PROP_PERM_READ;
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, perm);
		value = (ep->ep_link_sup_speeds & EXAMPLE_1000FDX) ? 1 : 0;
		mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8(prh, value);
		break;
	case MAC_PROP_EN_10GFDX_CAP:
		perm = ep->ep_link_type == EXAMPLE_LINK_COPPER ?
		    MAC_PROP_PERM_RW : MAC_PROP_PERM_READ;
		mac_prop_info_set_perm(prh, perm);
		value = (ep->ep_link_sup_speeds & EXAMPLE_10GFDX) ? 1 : 0;
		mac_prop_info_set_default_uint8(prh, value);
		break;

	/*
	 * If this device has private properties, then it should compare pr_name
	 * with the device's private properties and then fill in property
	 * information if it recognizes the name.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_PRIVATE:
		break;

	/*
	 * For unknown properties, there's not much to do. Simply don't call any
	 * of the mac_prop_info(9F) related functions.
	 */
	default:
		break;
	}
	mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mc_getprop 9E ,
.Xr mc_propinfo 9E ,
.Xr mac_prop_info 9F
