.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd June 02, 2016
.Dt MC_SETPROP 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mc_setprop
.Nd set device properties
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_m_setprop
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "const char *pr_name"
.Fa "mac_prop_id_t pr_num"
.Fa "uint_t pr_valsize"
.Fa "const void *pr_val"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
illumos DDI specific
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa driver
A pointer to the driver's private data that was passed in via the
.Sy m_pdata
member of the
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure to the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function.
.It Fa pr_name
A null-terminated string that contains the name of the property.
.It Fa pr_num
A constant that is used to identify the property.
.It Fa pr_valsize
A value that indicates the size in bytes of
.Fa pr_val .
.It Fa pr_val
A pointer to a
.Fa pr_valsize
byte buffer that contains the new value of the property.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mc_setprop
entry point is used to set the value of a given device's property from
the copy stored in
.Fa pr_val .
.Pp
When the
.Fn mc_setprop
entry point is called, the driver needs to first identify the property.
The set of possible properties and their meaning is listed in the
.Sx PROPERTIES
section of
.Xr mac 9E .
It should identify the property based on the value of
.Fa pr_num .
Most drivers will use a
.Sy switch
statement and for any property that it supports it should then check if
the value in
.Fa pr_valsize
is sufficient for the property, comparing it to the minimum size
listed for the property in
.Xr mac 9E .
If it is not, then it should return an error.
Otherwise, it should update the property based on the value in
.Fa pr_val .
When an unknown or unsupported property is encountered, generally the
.Sy default
case of the switch statement, the device driver should return an error.
.Pp
The special property
.Sy MAC_PROP_PRIVATE
indicates that this is a device driver specific private property.
The device driver must then look at the value of the
.Fa pr_name
argument and use
.Xr strcmp 9F
on it, comparing it to each of its private properties to identify which
one it is.
.Pp
Not all properties are supposed to be writable.
Some devices may opt to not allow a property that is designated as read/write to
be set.
When such a property is encountered, the driver should return the appropriate
error.
.Pp
The device
driver can access its device soft state by casting the
.Fa device
pointer to the appropriate structure.
As this may be called while other operations are ongoing, the device driver
should employ the appropriate locking while writing the properties.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the device driver should have copied the
value of the property into
.Fa pr_val
and return
.Sy 0 .
Otherwise, a positive error should be returned to indicate failure.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following examples shows how a device driver might structure its
.Fn mc_setporp
entry point.
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/mac_provider.h>

/*
 * Note, this example merely shows the structure of this function.
 * Different devices will manage their state in different ways. Like other
 * examples, this assumes that the device has state in a structure called
 * example_t and that there is a lock which keeps track of that state.
 *
 * For the purpose of this example, we assume that this device supports 100 Mb,
 * 1 GB, and 10 Gb full duplex speeds.
 */

static int
exmple_m_setprop(void *arg, const char *pr_name, mac_prop_id_t pr_num,
    uint_t pr_valsize, const void *pr_val)
{
	uint32_t new_mtu;
	int ret = 0;
	example_t *ep = arg;

	mutex_enter(&ep->ep_lock);
	switch (pr_num) {
	/*
	 * These represent properties that can never be changed, regardless of
	 * the type of PHY on the device (copper, fiber, etc.)
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_DUPLEX:
	case MAC_PROP_SPEED:
	case MAC_PROP_STATUS:
	case MAC_PROP_ADV_100FDX_CAP:
	case MAC_PROP_ADV_1000FDX_CAP:
	case MAC_PROP_ADV_10GFDX_CAP:
		ret = ENOTSUP;
		break;

	/*
	 * These EN properties are used to control the advertised speeds of the
	 * device. For this example, we assume that this device does not have a
	 * copper phy, at which point auto-negotiation and the speeds in
	 * question cannot be changed. These are called out separately as they
	 * should be controllable for copper based devices or it may need to be
	 * conditional depending on the type of phy present.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_EN_100FDX_CAP:
	case MAC_PROP_EN_1000FDX_CAP:
	case MAC_PROP_EN_10GFDX_CAP:
	case MAC_PROP_AUTONEG:
		ret = ENOTSUP;
		break;

	case MAC_PROP_MTU:
		if (pr_valsize < sizeof (uint32_t)) {
			ret = EOVERFLOW;
			break;
		}
		bcopy(&new_mtu, pr_val, sizeof (uint32_t));

		if (new_mtu < ep->ep_min_mtu ||
		    new_mtu > ep->ep_max_mtu) {
			ret = EINVAL;
			break;
		}

		/*
		 * We first ask MAC to update the MTU before we do anything.
		 * This may fail. It returns zero on success. The
		 * example_update_mtu function does device specific updates to
		 * ensure that the MTU on the device is updated and any internal
		 * data structures are up to date.
		 */
		ret = mac_maxdsu_update(&ep->ep_mac_hdl, new_mtu);
		if (ret == 0) {
			example_update_mtu(ep, new_mtu);
		}
		break;

	/*
	 * Devices may have their own private properties. If they do, they
	 * should not return ENOTSUP, but instead see if it's a property they
	 * recognize and handle it similar to those above. If it doesn't
	 * recognize the name, then it should return ENOTSUP.
	 */
	case MAC_PROP_PRIVATE:
		ret = ENOTSUP;
		break;

	default:
		ret = ENOTSUP;
		break;
	}
	mutex_exit(&ep->ep_lock);

	return (ret);
}
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
The device driver may return one of the following errors.
While this list is not intended to be exhaustive, it is recommended to use one
of these if possible.
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Er EINVAL
The contents of
.Fa pr_val
are outside the valid range for the property.
.It Er ENOTSUP
This error should be used whenever an unknown or unsupported property is
encountered.
It should also be used when the property is not writable.
.It Er EOVERFLOW
This error should be used when
.Fa pr_valsize
is smaller than the required size for a given value.
.It Er EBUSY
This error should be used when a property can't be set because the
device has started.
Note that device driver writers are encouraged to design device drivers such
that this error is not possible.
.It Er ECANCELLED
The device is in a state that does not allow it to handle data;
for example, it's suspended.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mac_register 9F ,
.Xr strcmp 9F ,
.Xr mac_register 9S
