'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH MMAP 9E "Sep 27, 2002"
.SH NAME
mmap \- check virtual mapping for memory mapped device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/cred.h>
#include <sys/mman.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>



\fBint prefix\fR\fBmmap\fR(\fBdev_t\fR \fIdev\fR, \fBoff_t\fR \fIoff\fR, \fBint\fR \fIprot\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.sp
.LP
This interface is obsolete. \fBdevmap\fR(9E) should be used instead.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdev\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Device whose memory is to be mapped.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoff\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
Offset within device memory at which mapping begins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprot\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
A bit field that specifies the protections this page of memory will receive.
Possible settings are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROT_READ\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Read access will be granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROT_WRITE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Write access will be granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROT_EXEC\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Execute access will be granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROT_USER\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
User-level access will be granted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBPROT_ALL\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 15n
All access will be granted.
.RE

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Future releases of Solaris will provide this function for binary and source
compatibility. However, for increased functionality, use \fBdevmap\fR(9E)
instead. See \fBdevmap\fR(9E) for details.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmmap()\fR entry point is a required entry point for character drivers
supporting memory-mapped devices. A memory mapped device has memory that can be
mapped into a process's address space. The \fBmmap\fR(2) system call, when
applied to a character special file, allows this device memory to be mapped
into user space for direct access by the user application.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmmap()\fR entry point is called as a result of an \fBmmap\fR(2) system
call, and also as a result of a page fault. \fBmmap()\fR is called to translate
the offset \fIoff\fR in device memory to the corresponding physical page frame
number.
.sp
.LP
The \fBmmap()\fR entry point checks if the offset \fIoff\fR is within the range
of pages exported by the device. For example, a device that has 512 bytes of
memory that can be mapped into user space should not support offsets greater
than 512. If the offset does not exist, then \fB-1\fR is returned. If the
offset does exist, \fBmmap()\fR returns the value returned by
\fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F) for the physical page in device memory containing the
offset \fIoff\fR.
.sp
.LP
\fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F) accepts a kernel virtual address as an argument. A
kernel virtual address can be obtained by calling \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F)
in the driver's \fBattach\fR(9E) routine. The corresponding
\fBddi_regs_map_free\fR(9F) call can be made in the driver's \fBdetach\fR(9E)
routine. Refer to the example below \fImmap Entry Point\fR for more
information.
.sp
.LP
\fBmmap()\fR should only be supported for memory-mapped devices. See
\fBsegmap\fR(9E) for further information on memory-mapped device drivers.
.sp
.LP
If a device driver shares data structures with the application, for example
through exported kernel memory, and the driver gets recompiled for a 64-bit
kernel but the application remains 32-bit, the binary layout of any data
structures will be incompatible if they contain longs or pointers. The driver
needs to know whether there is a model mismatch between the current thread and
the kernel and take necessary action. \fBddi_mmap_get_model\fR(9F) can be use
to get the C Language Type Model which the current thread expects. In
combination with \fBddi_model_convert_from\fR(9F) the driver can determine
whether there is a data model mismatch between the current thread and the
device driver. The device driver might have to adjust the shape of data
structures before exporting them to a user thread which supports a different
data model. See \fBddi_mmap_get_model\fR(9F) for an example.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the protection and offset are valid for the device, the driver should return
the value returned by \fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F), for the page at offset \fIoff\fR
in the device's memory. If not, \fB-1\fR should be returned.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fR\fBmmap()\fR Entry Point
.sp
.LP
The following is an example of the \fBmmap()\fR entry point. If offset
\fIoff\fR is valid, \fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F) is called to obtain the page frame
number corresponding to this offset in the device's memory. In this example,
\fBxsp\(->regp\(->csr\fR is a kernel virtual address which maps to device
memory. \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F) can be used to obtain this address. For
example, \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F) can be called in the driver's
\fBattach\fR(9E) routine. The resulting kernel virtual address is stored in the
\fBxxstate\fR structure, which is accessible from the driver's \fBmmap()\fR
entry point. See \fBddi_soft_state\fR(9F). The corresponding
\fBddi_regs_map_free\fR(9F) call can be made in the driver's  \fBdetach\fR(9E)
routine.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct reg {
	        uint8_t	csr;
	        uint8_t	data;
};
struct xxstate {
        .\|.\|.
	        struct reg	*regp
        .\|.\|.
};

struct xxstate *xsp;
\&.\|.\|.

static int
xxmmap(dev_t dev, off_t off, int prot)
{
        int		instance;
        struct xxstate *xsp;

         /* No write access */
        if (prot & PROT_WRITE)
		            return (-1);

        instance = getminor(dev);
        xsp = ddi_get_soft_state(statep, instance);
        if (xsp == NULL)
		            return (-1);

        /* check for a valid offset */
	       if ( off is invalid )
		            return (-1);
	       return (hat_getkpfnum (xsp->regp->csr + off));
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for a description of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability Level	Obsolete
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmmap\fR(2), \fBattributes\fR(5), \fBattach\fR(9E), \fBdetach\fR(9E),
\fBdevmap\fR(9E), \fBsegmap\fR(9E), \fBddi_btop\fR(9F),
\fBddi_get_soft_state\fR(9F), \fBddi_mmap_get_model\fR(9F),
\fBddi_model_convert_from\fR(9F), \fBddi_regs_map_free\fR(9F),
\fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F), \fBddi_soft_state\fR(9F), \fBdevmap_setup\fR(9F),
\fBgetminor\fR(9F), \fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
For some devices, mapping device memory in the driver's \fBattach\fR(9E)
routine and unmapping device memory in the driver's \fBdetach\fR(9E) routine is
a sizeable drain on system resources. This is especially true for devices with
a large amount of physical address space.
.sp
.LP
One alternative is to create a mapping for only the first page of device memory
in \fBattach\fR(9E). If the device memory is contiguous, a kernel page frame
number may be obtained by calling \fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F) with the kernel
virtual address of the first page of device memory and adding the desired page
offset to the result. The page offset may be obtained by converting the byte
offset \fIoff\fR to pages. See \fBddi_btop\fR(9F).
.sp
.LP
Another alternative is to call \fBddi_regs_map_setup\fR(9F) and
\fBddi_regs_map_free\fR(9F) in \fBmmap()\fR. These function calls would bracket
the call to \fBhat_getkpfnum\fR(9F).
.sp
.LP
However, note that the above alternatives may not work in all cases. The
existence of intermediate nexus devices with memory management unit translation
resources that are not locked down may cause unexpected and undefined behavior.
