.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2017, Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2022 Oxide Compuer Company
.\" Copyright 2023 Peter Tribble
.\"
.Dd July 17, 2023
.Dt MR_RGET 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mr_rget
.Nd fill in ring information
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/mac_provider.h
.Ft void
.Fo prefix_fill_ring_info
.Fa "void *driver"
.Fa "mac_ring_type_t rtype"
.Fa "const int group_index"
.Fa "const int ring_index"
.Fa "mac_ring_info_t *infop"
.Fa "mac_ring_handle_t rh"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Uncommitted -
This interface is still evolving.
API and ABI stability is not guaranteed.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa driver
A pointer to the driver's private data that was passed in via the
.Fa m_pdata
member of the
.Xr mac_register 9S
structure to the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function.
.It Fa group_index
An integer value indicating the group that this ring belongs to.
Groups are numbered starting from zero.
.It Fa rtype
A value indicating the type of ring.
Valid values include:
.Bl -tag -width Dv
.It Dv MAC_RING_TYPE_RX
The ring is a receive ring.
.It Dv MAC_RING_TYPE_TX
The ring is a transmit ring.
.El
.It Fa ring_index
An integer indicating the index of the ring inside of the group.
Ring indexes are numbered starting from zero.
Each group has its own set of ring indexes.
.It Fa infop
A pointer to an instance of a
.Xr mac_ring_info 9S
structure.
.It Fa rh
An opaque pointer to a ring handle that can be used to identify this
ring.
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn mr_rget
entry point provides a means for the device driver to fill in
information about a ring.
The driver must fill in information into the
.Fa infop
argument.
For the list of fields and an explanation of how to fill them in, please
see
.Xr mac_ring_info 9S .
.Pp
The
.Fa rtype
argument describes whether this is a receive ring or transmit ring
identified by a value of
.Dv MAC_RING_TYPE_RX
or
.Dv MAC_RING_TYPE_TX
respectively.
The ring information that is filled in varies between transmit and
receive rings.
If separate entry points were not specified in the
.Xr mac_capab_rings 9E
structure, then the driver
must ensure that it checks this value.
.Pp
The
.Fa group_index
and
.Fa ring_index
arguments are used to uniquely identify a ring.
The number of groups that a driver supports is based on the values
present in the
.Fa mr_gnum
member of the
.Vt mac_capab_rings_t
structure which is described in
.Xr mac_capab_rings 9E .
The group index ranges from zero to the specified number of groups minus
one.
The number of rings in the group is determined based on the values
specified in
.Xr mac_group_info 9S
structure that is filled in during the
.Xr mr_gget 9E
entry point.
The ring numbering for each group is independent and always starts at
zero.
Based on the combination of group and ring index, the driver should be
able to map that to a unique ring.
.Pp
After filling out the ring structure in
.Fa infop ,
the driver should make sure to store the ring handle in
.Fa rh
for future use.
This is required for callbacks such as
.Xr mac_rx_ring 9F
or
.Xr mac_tx_ring_update 9F .
.Sh CONTEXT
The
.Fn mr_rget
entry point will be called in response to a driver calling the
.Xr mac_register 9F
function and the driver has acknowledged that it supports the
.Dv MAC_CAPAB_RINGS
capability.
This will be called after a call to the driver's
.Xr mr_gget 9E
entry point.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mac 9E ,
.Xr mac_capab_rings 9E ,
.Xr mr_gget 9E ,
.Xr mac_register 9F ,
.Xr mac_rx_ring 9F ,
.Xr mac_tx_ring_update 9F ,
.Xr mac_group_info 9S ,
.Xr mac_register 9S ,
.Xr mac_ring_info 9S
