'\" te
.\"  Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH TRAN_TGT_INIT 9E "Mar 13, 2016"
.SH NAME
tran_tgt_init \- request to initialize HBA resources on behalf of a particular
target
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/scsi/scsi.h>



\fBint prefix\fR\fBtran_tgt_init\fR(\fBdev_info_t *\fR\fIhba_dip\fR, \fBdev_info_t *\fR\fItgt_dip\fR,
     \fBscsi_hba_tran_t *\fR\fIhba_tran\fR, \fBstruct scsi_device *\fR\fIsd\fR);
.fi

.SH INTERFACE LEVEL
.LP
Solaris architecture specific (Solaris DDI).
.SH PARAMETERS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhba_dip\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a  \fBdev_info_t\fR structure, referring to the \fBHBA\fR device
instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItgt_dip\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a \fBdev_info_t\fR structure, referring to the target device
instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhba_tran\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a  \fBscsi_hba_tran\fR(9S) structure, consisting of the \fBHBA\fR's
transport vectors.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsd\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pointer to a  \fBscsi_device\fR(9S) structure, describing the target.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBtran_tgt_init()\fR vector in the \fBscsi_hba_tran\fR(9S) structure may
be initialized during the \fBHBA\fR driver's \fBattach\fR(9E) to point to an
\fBHBA\fR driver function to be called by the system when an instance of a
target device is being created.  The \fBtran_tgt_init()\fR vector, if not
\fINULL\fR,is called after the \fBdev_info\fR node structure is created for
this target device instance, but before \fBprobe\fR(9E) for this instance is
called. Before receiving transport requests from the target driver instance,
the \fBHBA\fR may perform any initialization required for this particular
target during the call of the \fBtran_tgt_init()\fR vector.
.sp
.LP
Note that \fIhba_tran\fR will point to a cloned copy of the
\fBscsi_hba_tran_t\fR structure allocated by the \fBHBA\fR driver if the
\fBSCSI_HBA_TRAN_CLONE\fR flag was specified in the call to
\fBscsi_hba_attach\fR(9F). In this case, the \fBHBA\fR driver may choose to
initialize the \fItran_tgt_private\fR field in the structure pointed to by
\fIhba_tran\fR, to point to the data specific to the particular target device
instance.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
\fBtran_tgt_init()\fR must return:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_SUCCESS\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
the \fBHBA\fR driver can support the addressed target, and was able to
initialize per-target resources.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDDI_FAILURE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
the \fBHBA\fR driver cannot support the addressed target, or was unable to
initialize per-target resources. In this event, the initialization of this
instance of the target device will not be continued, the target driver's
\fBprobe\fR(9E) will not be called, and the \fItgt_dip\fR structure destroyed.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBattach\fR(9E), \fBprobe\fR(9E), \fBtran_tgt_free\fR(9E),
\fBtran_tgt_probe\fR(9E), \fBscsi_hba_attach_setup\fR(9F),
\fBscsi_device\fR(9S), \fBscsi_hba_tran\fR(9S)
.sp
.LP
\fIWriting Device Drivers\fR
