.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Dec 22, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_PIPE_RESET 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hcdi_pipe_rest
.Nd reset an open USB pipe
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hcdi.h
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_hcdi_pipe_reset
.Fa "usba_pipe_handle_data_t *ph"
.Fa "usb_flags_t usb_flags"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This is a private function that is not part of the stable DDI. It may be
removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa ph
A pointer to a USB pipe handle as defined in
.Xr usba_pipe_handle_data 9S .
.It Fa usb_flags
Flags which describe how allocations should be performed. Valid flags
are:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy USB_FLAGS_NOSLEEP
Do not block waiting for memory. If memory is not available the allocation
will fail.
.It Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
Perform a blocking allocation. If memory is not available, the function
will wait until memory is made available.
.Pp
Note, the request may still fail even if
.Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
is specified.
.El
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_pipe_reset
entry point is designed to take a pipe in an arbitrary state and return
it to the same state it was in after a call to
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_open 9E .
While this entry point does some similar things to the
.Xr usba_hcdi_stop_intr_polling 9E
and
.Xr usba_hcdi_stop_isoc_polling 9E
entry points, there are some notable differences.
.Pp
This entry point is synchronous. The host controller driver should take
the following steps on the pipe before returning:
.Bl -enum
.It
Quiesce and stop the endpoint.
.It
If the endpoint has any errors they should be cleared at this time.
.It
Remove any remaining, scheduled or queued transfers. For each one call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
with the code
.Sy USB_CR_PIPE_RESET .
.It
Perform any other necessary steps on the controller to have the endpoint
be ready to perform I/O.
.El
.Pp
This entry point is called by the broader USBA framework as part of
closing a pipe or in response to a device stall.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn usba_hcdi_pipe_reset
function should return
.Sy USB_SUCCESS .
Otherwise, it should return the appropriate USB error. If uncertain, use
.Sy USB_FAILURE .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_open 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_stop_intr_polling 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_stop_isoc_polling 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F ,
.Xr usba_pipe_handle_data 9S
