.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Dec 22, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_PIPE_ISOC_XFER 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hcdi_pipe_isoc_xfer
.Nd perform a USB isochronous transfer
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/usb/usba/hcdi.h
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_hcdi_pipe_isoc_xfer
.Fa "usba_pipe_handle_data_t *ph"
.Fa "usb_isoc_req_t *usrp"
.Fa "usb_flags_t usb_flags"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This is a private function that is not part of the stable DDI.
It may be removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMETERS
.Bl -tag -width Fa
.It Fa ph
A pointer to a USB pipe handle as defined in
.Xr usba_pipe_handle_data 9S .
.It Fa usrp
A pointer to a USB isochronous transfer request.
The structure's members are documented in
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S .
.It Fa usb_flags
Flags which describe how allocations should be performed.
Valid flags are:
.Bl -tag -width Sy
.It Sy USB_FLAGS_NOSLEEP
Do not block waiting for memory.
If memory is not available the allocation will fail.
.It Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
Perform a blocking allocation.
If memory is not available, the function will wait until memory is made
available.
.Pp
Note, the request may still fail even if
.Sy USB_FLAGS_SLEEP
is specified.
.El
.El
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn usba_hcdi_pipe_isoc_xfer
entry point is used to initiate an
.Em asynchronous
USB isochronous transfer on the pipe
.Fa ph .
The specific USB interrupt transfer is provided in
.Fa uirp .
For more background on transfer types, see
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E .
.Pp
The host controller driver should first check the USB address of the
pipe handle.
It may correspond to the root hub.
If it does, the driver should return
.Sy USB_NOT_SUPPORTED .
.Pp
Isochronous transfers happen once a period.
Isochronous transfers may just be told to start as son as possible or to line up
to a specific frame.
At this time, nothing in the system uses the later behavior.
It is reasonable for a new driver to require that the
.Sy USB_ATTRS_ISOC_XFER_ASAP
flag be set in the
.Sy isoc_attributes
member of the
.Fa usrp
argument.
In the case where it's not set and the controller driver does not support
setting the frame, it should return
.Sy USB_NOT_SUPPORTED .
.Pp
Isochronous-IN transfers are
.Em always periodic .
Isochronous-OUT transfers are one shot transfers.
Periodic transfers have slightly different handling and behavior.
.Pp
Isochronous transfers may send data to the device or receive data from
the device.
A given isochronous endpoint is uni-directional.
The direction can be determined from the endpoint address based on the
.Sy p_ep
member of
.Fa ubrp .
See
.Xr usb_ep_descr 9S
for more information on how to determine the direction of the endpoint.
.Pp
Isochronous transfers are a little bit different from other transfers.
While there is still a single
.Xr mblk 9S
structure that all the data goes to or from, the transfer may be broken
up into multiple packets.
All of these packets make up a single transfer request and each one represents
the data that is transferred during a single portion of a frame.
For the description of them, see
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S .
Because of these data structures, the way that transfers are recorded is
different and will be discussed later on.
.Pp
The device driver should allocate memory, whether memory suitable for a
DMA transfer or otherwise, to perform the transfer.
For all memory allocated, it should honor the values in
.Fa usb_flags
to determine whether or not it should block for allocations.
.Pp
For isochronous-out transfers which are one-shot transfers, the driver
should verify that the sum of all of the individual packet counts
matches the message block length of the data.
If it does not, then the driver should return
.Sy USB_INVALID_ARGS .
.Pp
If the driver successfully schedules the I/O, then it should return
.Sy USB_SUCCESS .
When the I/O completes, it must call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
with
.Fa usrp .
If the transfer fails, but the driver returned
.Sy USB_SUCCESS ,
it still must call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
and should specify an error there.
.Pp
The driver is responsible for timing out all one-shot outgoing requests.
As there is no timeout member in the isochronous request structure, then
the timeout should be set to
.Sy HCDI_DEFAULT_TIMEOUT .
.Ss Periodic Transfers
All isochronous-in transfers are periodic transfers.
Once a periodic transfer is initiated, every time data is received the driver
should call the
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
function with updated data.
.Pp
When a periodic transfer is initiated, many controller drivers will
allocate multiple transfers up front and schedule them all.
Many drivers do this to ensure that data isn't lost between servicing the first
transfer and scheduling the next.
The number of such transfers used depends on the polling frequency specified in
the endpoint descriptor.
.Pp
Unless an error occurs, the driver must not use the original isochronous
request,
.Fa usrp .
Instead, it should duplicate the request through the
.Xr usba_hcdi_dup_isoc_req 9F
function before calling
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F .
.Pp
The driver should return the original transfer in one of the following
conditions:
.Bl -bullet
.It
A pipe reset request came in from the
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_rest 9E
entry point.
.It
A request to stop polling came in from the
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_stop_isoc_polling 9E
entry point.
.It
A request to close the pipe came in from the
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_close 9E
entry point.
.It
An out of memory condition occurred.
The caller should call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
with the code
.Sy USB_CR_NO_RESOURCES .
.It
Some other transfer error occurred.
.El
.Ss Callback Handling
When the isochronous transfer completes, the driver should consider the
following items to determine what actions it should take on the
callback:
.Sy USB_SUCCESS .
Otherwise, it should return the appropriate USB error.
If uncertain, use
.Sy USB_FAILURE .
.Bl -bullet
.It
If the transfer timed out, it should remove the transfer from the
outstanding list, queue the next transfer, and return the transfer back
to the OS with the error code
.Sy USB_CR_TIMEOUT
with
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F .
.It
If the transfer failed, it should find the appropriate error and call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
with that error.
.It
If the transfer succeeded, but less data was transferred than expected,
consult the
.Sy isoc_attributes
member of the
.Fa usrp .
If the
.Sy USB_ATTRS_SHORT_XFER_OK
flag is not present, then the driver should call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
with the error
.Sy USB_CR_DATA_UNDERRUN .
.It
If the transfer was going to the host, then the driver should copy the
data into the transfer's message block and update the
.Sy b_wptr
member of the
.Xr mblk 9S .
.It
The driver should update the
.Sy isoc_pkt_actual_length
member of the
.Sy isoc_pkt_descr
array of the
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S
structure with the actual transfer amounts.
.It
If everything was successful, call
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F
with the code
.Sy USB_CR_OK .
.It
If this was a periodic transfer, it should reschedule the transfer.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, the
.Fn usba_hcdi_pipe_isoc_xfer
function should return
function should return
.Sy USB_SUCCESS .
Otherwise, it should return the appropriate USB error.
If uncertain, use
.Sy USB_FAILURE .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_close 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_rest 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_pipe_stop_isoc_polling 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_cb 9F ,
.Xr usba_hcdi_dup_isoc_req 9F ,
.Xr mblk 9S ,
.Xr usb_ep_descr 9S ,
.Xr usb_isoc_req 9S ,
.Xr usba_pipe_handle_data 9S
