.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2016 Joyent, Inc.
.\"
.Dd Dec 20, 2016
.Dt USBA_HCDI_CB_OPS 9E
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm usba_hcdi_cb_ops ,
.Nm usba_hcdi_cb_open ,
.Nm usba_hcdi_cb_ioctl ,
.Nm usba_hcdi_cb_close
.Nd USBA HCD Character Device character functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/file.h
.In sys/errno.h
.In sys/open.h
.In sys/cred.h
.In sys/ddi.h
.In sys/sunddi.h
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_open
.Fa "dev_t *devp"
.Fa "int flag"
.Fa "int otyp"
.Fa "cred_t *credp"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_ioctl
.Fa "dev_t dev"
.Fa "int cmd"
.Fa "intptr_t arg"
.Fa "int mode"
.Fa "cred_t *cred_p"
.Fa "int *rval_p"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo prefix_close
.Fa "dev_t dev"
.Fa "int flag"
.Fa "int otyp"
.Fa "cred_t *cred_p"
.Fc
.Sh INTERFACE LEVEL
.Sy Volatile -
illumos USB HCD private function
.Pp
This describes private interfaces that are not part of the stable DDI.
This may be removed or changed at any time.
.Sh PARAMETERS
For parameter descriptions, see
.Xr open 9E ,
.Xr ioctl 9E ,
and
.Xr close 9E .
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The entry points listed here are the traditional character device
.Xr open 9E ,
.Xr ioctl 9E ,
and
.Xr close 9E
entry points. As discussed in
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E
all HCD drivers are required to implement these functions and vector
them to
.Xr usba_hubdi_open 9F ,
.Xr usba_hubdi_ioctl 9F ,
and
.Xr usba_hubdi_close 9F
respectively. For background information on these functions and how they
interact in the broader operating system, please see the general manual pages
.Xr open 9E ,
.Xr ioctl 9E ,
and
.Xr close 9E .
.Pp
The arguments between the two types of functions are slightly different.
The
.Sx EXAMPLES
section provides a sketch for how most HCD drivers should perform those
transformations.
.Pp
One important distinction from the traditional character routines is
that the USBA controls a bit more of the minor space. Therefore, the
driver needs to take extra care around the values encoded in the
.Sy dev_t
and it should not perform any cloning or renumbering in its
.Xr open 9E
entry point.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following example is adapated from the
.Xr xhci 7D
driver which shows how an HCD driver might arrange things. This assumes
that a driver is following the recommendations in
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E
and has initialized a soft state structure through the
.Xr ddi_soft_state_init 9F
function. This design also requires that the soft state structure
contains a pointer to the
.Sy dev_info_t
structure during its
.Xr attach 9E callback.
.Pp
This example does not stand alone, it will need to be adapted for a
driver:
.Bd -literal
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <sys/file.h>
#include <sys/errno.h>
#include <sys/open.h>
#include <sys/cred.h>
#include <sys/ddi.h>
#include <sys/sunddi.h>

static void *prefix_soft_state;

/*
 * Per-instance structure
 */
typedef struct prefix {
	dev_info_t	*prefix_dev_info;
	...
} prefix_t;

static dev_info_t *
prefix_get_dip(dev_t dev)
{
	prefix_t *p;
	int instance = getminor(dev) & ~HUBD_IS_ROOT_HUB;

	p = ddi_get_soft_state(prefix_soft_state, instance);
	if (p != NULL)
		return (p->prefix_dip);
	return (NULL);
}

static int
prefix_open(dev_t *devp, int flags, int otyp, cred_t *credp)
{
	dev_info_t *dip = prefix_get_dip(*devp);

	return (usba_hubdi_open(dip, devp, flags, otyp, credp));
}

static int
prefix_ioctl(dev_t dev, int cmd, intptr_t arg, int mode, cred_t *credp,
    int *rvalp)
{
	dev_info_t *dip = prefix_get_dip(dev);

	/* Potentially handle private ioctls */

	return (usba_hubdi_ioctl(dip, dev, cmd, arg, mode, credp, rvalp));
}

static int
prefix_close(dev_t dev, int flag, int otyp, cred_t *credp)
{
	dev_info_t *dip = prefix_get_dip(dev);

	return (usba_hubdi_close(dip, dev, flag, otyp, credp));
}

static int
prefix_attach(dev_info_t *dip, ddi_attach_cmd_t cmd)
{
	int instance;
	prefix_t *p;

	/* Perform normal checking of cmd */

	instance = ddi_get_instance(dip);
	if (ddi_soft_state_zalloc(prefix_soft_state, inst) != 0)
		return (DDI_FAILURE);
	p = ddi_get_soft_state(prefix_soft_state, instance);
	p->prefix_dev_info = dip;

	/* Continue with normal attach(9E) initialization */
}

int
_init(void)
{
	int ret;

	if ((ret = ddi_soft_state_init(&prefx_soft_state, sizeof (prefx_t),
	    0)) != 0) {
		return (ret);
	}

	/* Perform normal module initialization here */

	return (ret);
}

int
_fini(void)
{

	/* Perform normal module teardown first */

	ddi_soft_state_fini(&prefix_soft_state);

	return (0);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr xhci 7D ,
.Xr attach 9E ,
.Xr close 9E ,
.Xr ioctl 9E ,
.Xr open 9E ,
.Xr usba_hcdi 9E ,
.Xr ddi_soft_state_init 9F ,
.Xr usba_hubdi_close 9F ,
.Xr usba_hubdi_ioctl 9F ,
.Xr usba_hubdi_open 9F
