'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SLPCLOSE 3SLP "Jan 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
SLPClose \- close an open SLP handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBvoid\fR  \fBSLPClose\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIphSLP\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPClose()\fR function frees all  resources associated with the handle.
If the handle is invalid, the function returns silently. Any outstanding
synchronous or asynchronous operations are cancelled, so that their callback
functions  will not be called any further
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIphSLP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 9n
An \fBSLPHandle\fR handle returned from a call to \fBSPLOpen()\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the
ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBSLPClose()\fR
.sp
.LP
The following example will free all resources associated the handle:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hslp
     SLPCLose(hslp);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The
Internet Society. June 1999.
