'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SLPDEREG 3SLP "Jan 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
SLPDereg \- deregister the SLP advertisement
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPDereg\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIpcURL\fR,
     \fBSLPRegReport\fR \fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPDereg()\fR function deregisters the advertisement for \fBURL\fR
\fIpcURL\fR in all scopes where the service is registered and in all language
locales, not just the locale of the \fBSLPHandle\fR. If no error occurs, the
return value is \fB0\fR. Otherwise, one of the \fBSLPError\fR codes is
returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhSLP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The language specific  \fBSLPHandle\fR to use for deregistering. \fIhSLP\fR
cannot be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpcURL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The \fBURL\fRto deregister. The value of \fIpcURL\fR cannot be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallback\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A callback to report the operation completion  status. \fIcallback\fR cannot be
\fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpvCookie\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Memory passed to the callback code from the client.  \fIpvCookie\fR can be
\fINULL\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the
ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRUsing \fBSLPDereg()\fR
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to deregister the advertisement for the \fBURL\fR
"\fBservice:ftp://csserver\fR":

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPerror err;
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPRegReport regreport;

err = SLPDereg(hSLP, "service:ftp://csserver", regreport, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E., Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E., \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR, The
Internet Society, June 1999.
