'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SLPDELATTRS 3SLP "Jan 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
SLPDelAttrs \- delete attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPDelAttrs\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIpcURL\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIpcAttrs\fR, \fBSLPRegReport *\fR\fIcallback\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIpvCookie\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPDelAttrs()\fR function deletes the selected attributes in the locale
of the \fBSLPHandle\fR. If no error  occurs, the return value is \fB0\fR.
Otherwise, one of the \fBSLPError\fR codes is returned.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhSLP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The language  specific \fBSLPHandle\fR to  use to delete  attributes. It cannot
be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpcURL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The \fB URL\fR of the advertisement from which the attributes should be
deleted.  It cannot be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpcAttrs\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A  comma-separated  list of attribute ids  for  the attributes to deregister.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallback\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A callback to report the operation's completion status. It cannot be
\fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpvCookie\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Memory passed to the callback code from the client. It cannot be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the
ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRDeleting Attributes
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to delete the \fBlocation\fR and \fBdpi\fR attributes
for the \fBURL\fR \fBservice:printer:lpr://serv/queve1\fR

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hSLP;
SLPError err;
SLPRegReport report;

err = SLPDelAttrs(hSLP, "service:printer:lpr://serv/queue1",
    "location,dpi", report, NULL);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4), \fBslpd.reg\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The
Internet Society. June 1999.
