'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SLPFINDSCOPES 3SLP "Jan 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
SLPFindScopes \- return list of configured and discovered scopes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lslp\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <slp.h>

\fBSLPError\fR \fBSLPFindScopes\fR(\fBSLPHandle\fR \fIhSLP\fR, \fBchar**\fR \fIppcScopes\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBSLPFindScopes()\fR function sets the \fIppcScopes\fR parameter  to  a
pointer to a comma-separated list including  all available scope  names. The
list of  scopes comes from  a variety of  sources: the configuration file, the
\fBnet.slp.useScopes\fR property and the \fBnet.slp.DAAddresses\fR  property,
\fBDHCP\fR,   or  through the  \fBDA\fR discovery  process.  If  there is  any
order  to the  scopes,  preferred  scopes  are  listed  before less  desirable
scopes.  There  is  always  at  least one  string in the  array, the  default
scope,  \fBDEFAULT\fR.
.sp
.LP
If no error occurs, \fBSLPFindScopes()\fR returns \fBSLP_OK\fR, otherwise, it
returns the appropriate error code.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhSLP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fBSLPHandle\fR on which to search for scopes.  \fIhSLP\fR cannot be
\fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIppcScopes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A  pointer to  a \fBchar\fR  pointer  into  which  the  buffer pointer is
placed upon return. The buffer is null-terminated.   The memory should be freed
by calling \fBSLPFree()\fR. See \fBSLPFree\fR(3SLP)
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
This function or its callback may return any \fBSLP\fR error code. See the
ERRORS section in \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP).
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRFinding Configured or Discovered Scopes
.sp
.LP
Use the following example to find configured or discovered scopes:

.sp
.in +2
.nf
SLPHandle hSLP;
char *ppcScopes;
SLPError err;

error = SLPFindScopes(hSLP, & ppcScopes);
.fi
.in -2

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSLP_CONF_FILE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
When set, use this file for configuration.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBslpd\fR(1M), \fBslp_api\fR(3SLP), \fBSLPFree\fR(3SLP), \fBslp.conf\fR(4),
\fBslpd.reg\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fISystem Administration Guide: Network Services\fR
.sp
.LP
Guttman, E.,  Perkins, C., Veizades, J., and Day, M. \fIRFC 2608, Service
Location Protocol, Version 2\fR. The Internet Society. June 1999.
.sp
.LP
Kempf, J. and Guttman, E. \fIRFC 2614, An API for Service Location\fR. The
Internet Society. June 1999.
