'\" te
.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2014, Joyent, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH VND_PROP_WRITEABLE 3VND "Feb 21, 2014"

.SH NAME

vnd_prop_writeable \- determine if a vnd property can be updated

.SH SYNOPSIS

.LP
.nf
cc [ flag... ] file... -lvnd [ library... ]
#include <libvnd.h>

int vnd_prop_writeable(vnd_prop_t prop, boolean_t *wp);
.fi


.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The vnd_prop_writeable function is used as a programmatic means to
determine whether a given vnd property is writeable or not. The
property to check is specified in prop and should be from the list
described in libvnd(3VND). The argument wp is a pointer to a boolean_t
which will be updated upon the successful completion of the function.
The argument wp must be a valid pointer. If a property is writeable
than the value pointed to by wp is set to B_TRUE. If the property is
read-only, then the value is set to B_FALSE.


.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
On success, vnd_prop_writeable returns zero and the value pointed to
by wp is updated with whether the property is writeable. If the
property prop does not exist, then vnd_prop_writeable will return -1.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Example 1    Check whether the property VND_PROP_TXBUF is writable
.LP
The following sample C program checks whether the vnd property
VND_PROP_TXBUF is writeable or not.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <libvnd.h>
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

int
main(void)
{
	boolean_t canwrite;

	if (vnd_prop_writeable(VND_PROP_TXBUF, &prop) != 0)
		abort();

	if (canwrite == B_TRUE)
		(void) printf("VND_PROP_TXBUF is writeable\n");
	else
		(void) printf("VND_PROP_TXBUF is read only\n");

	return (0);
}
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See attributes(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Stability	Committed
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO

vndadm(1M), libvnd(3VND)
