.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2021 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.Dd November 28, 2007
.Dt DCFS 4FS
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dcfs
.Nd Compression file system
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/filio.h
.In sys/fs/decomp.h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
filesystem is a layered filesystem that you use to compress data when writing to
a file and decompress upon read.
The primary function of the
.Nm
filesystem is to compress individual files when constructing a boot archive and
when reading or booting from the archive.
.Sh INTERFACE STABILITY
.Sy Uncommitted
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ufs 4FS ,
.Xr attributes 7 ,
.Xr boot 8 ,
.Xr bootadm 8 ,
.Xr fiocompress 8
.Sh NOTES
The
.Nm
compression/decompression file system works only with UFS.
