.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2021 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.Dd March 10, 2023
.Dt DEV 4FS
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm dev
.Nd Device name file system
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
filesystem manages the name spaces of devices in the operating system.
The global zone's instance of the
.Nm
filesystem is mounted during boot on
.Pa /dev .
This filesystem is colloquially called
.Sq sdev
as a way to distinguish it from the
.Xr devfs 4FS
filesystem mounted at
.Pa /devices .
.Pp
A subdirectory under
.Pa /dev
may have unique operational semantics.
Most of the common device names under
.Pa /dev
are created automatically by
.Xr devfsadm 8
Others, such as
.Pa /dev/pts ,
.Pa /dev/net ,
and
.Pa /dev/zvol
are dynamic and reflect the operational state of the system.
You can manually generate device names for newly attached hardware by invoking
.Xr devfsadm 8
or implicitly, by indirectly causing a lookup or readdir operation in the
filesystem to occur.
For example, you can discover a disk that was attached when the system was
powered down (and generate a name for that device) by invoking
.Xr format 8 .
.Pp
In a non-global zone, the
.Nm
filesystem is also mounted at
.Pa /dev ;
however, it is generally speaking read-only.
Unlike in the global zone, a privileged user in a non-global zone cannot create
directories or files, directories, or other objects within the filesystem.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /dev
Mount point for the
.Nm
filesystem in the global zone and non-global zones.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr devfs 4FS ,
.Xr devfsadm 8 ,
.Xr format 8
.Sh NOTES
The global
.Pa /dev
instance cannot be unmounted.
