.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Copyright 2021 Oxide Computer Company
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" Copyright 2020 Joyent, Inc.
.\" Copyright 2021 Oxide Computer Company
.Dd February 4, 2020
.Dt SHAREFS 4FS
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sharefs
.Nd Kernel sharetab filesystem
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
filesystem describes the state of all shares currently loaded by the kernel, and
shared by the invoking zone.
It is mounted during boot time as a read-only file at
.Pa /etc/dfs/sharetab .
.Pp
Filesystem contents are dynamic and reflect the current set of shares in the
zone.
File contents are described in
.Xr sharetab 5 .
.Pp
File contents can be modified as a result of
.Xr share 8 ,
.Xr sharectl 8 ,
.Xr sharemgr 8 ,
and changing properties of a
.Xr zfs 8
data set.
.Pp
The module may not be unloaded dynamically by the kernel.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Pa
.It Pa /etc/dfs/sharetab
System record of shared file systems.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sharetab 5 ,
.Xr zones 7 ,
.Xr share 8 ,
.Xr sharectl 8 ,
.Xr sharemgr 8 ,
.Xr zfs 8
