'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 1999, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH PTEM 7M "Jul 3, 1990"
.SH NAME
ptem \- STREAMS Pseudo Terminal Emulation module
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBint ioctl(\fR\fIfd\fR, \fBI_PUSH\fR,\fB "ptem");\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBptem\fR is a STREAMS module that, when used in conjunction with a line
discipline and pseudo terminal driver, emulates a terminal.
.sp
.LP
The \fBptem\fR module must be pushed (see  \fBI_PUSH\fR, \fBstreamio\fR(7I))
onto the slave side of a pseudo terminal STREAM, before the \fBldterm\fR(7M)
module is pushed.
.sp
.LP
On the write-side, the \fBTCSETA\fR, \fBTCSETAF\fR, \fBTCSETAW\fR,
\fBTCGETA\fR, \fBTCSETS\fR, \fBTCSETSW\fR, \fBTCSETSF\fR, \fBTCGETS\fR,
\fBTCSBRK\fR, \fBJWINSIZE\fR, \fBTIOCGWINSZ\fR, and \fBTIOCSWINSZ\fR
\fBtermio\fR \fBioctl\fR(2) messages are processed and acknowledged. If remote
mode is not in effect, \fBptem\fR handles the \fBTIOCSTI\fR ioctl by copying
the argument bytes into an  \fBM_DATA\fR message and passing it back up the
read side. Regardless of the remote mode setting, \fBptem\fR acknowledges the
ioctl and passes a copy of it downstream for possible further processing. A
hang up (that is, \fBstty 0\fR) is converted to a zero length \fBM_DATA\fR
message and passed downstream. Termio \fBcflags\fR and window row and column
information are stored locally one per stream. \fBM_DELAY\fR messages are
discarded. All other messages are passed downstream unmodified.
.sp
.LP
On the read-side all messages are passed upstream unmodified with the following
exceptions. All \fBM_READ\fR and \fBM_DELAY\fR messages are freed in both
directions. A \fBTCSBRK\fR ioctl is converted to an \fBM_BREAK\fR message and
passed upstream and an acknowledgement is returned downstream. A
\fBTIOCSIGNAL\fR ioctl is converted into an \fBM_PCSIG\fR message,  and passed
upstream and an acknowledgement is returned downstream. Finally a
\fBTIOCREMOTE\fR ioctl is converted into an \fBM_CTL\fR message, acknowledged,
and passed upstream; the resulting mode is retained for use in subsequent
\fBTIOCSTI\fR parsing.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB<\fBsys/ptem.h\fR> \fR
.ad
.RS 17n

.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBstty\fR(1), \fBioctl\fR(2), \fBldterm\fR(7M), \fBpckt\fR(7M),
\fBstreamio\fR(7I), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
.sp
.LP
\fISTREAMS Programming Guide\fR
