'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_CHECKPASS 3SASL "Oct 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_checkpass \- check a plaintext password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_checkpass\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIuser\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIuserlen\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIpass\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIpasslen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_checkpass()\fR interface checks a plaintext password. The
\fBsasl_checkpass()\fR interface is used for protocols that had a login method
before SASL, for example, the \fBLOGIN\fR command in IMAP. The password is
checked with the \fBpwcheck_method\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_checkpass()\fR interface is a server interface. You cannot use it
to check passwords from a client.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_checkpass()\fR interface checks the posible repositories until it
succeeds or there are no more repositories. If
\fBsasl_server_userdb_checkpass_t\fR is registered, \fBsasl_checkpass()\fR
tries it first.
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBpwcheck_method\fR SASL option to specify which \fBpwcheck\fR methods
to use.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_checkpass()\fR interface supports the transition of passwords if
the SASL option \fBauto_transition\fR is on.
.sp
.LP
If \fIuser\fR is \fINULL\fR, check is plaintext passwords are enabled.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The \fBsasl_conn_t\fR for which the request is being made
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpass\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Plaintext password to check
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpasslen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The length of \fIpass\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
User to query in current \fBuser_domain\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuserlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The length of username.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_checkpass()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Indicates that the authentication is complete
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the
authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
