'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_AUXPROP_REQUEST 3SASL "Aug 22, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_auxprop_request \- request auxialliary properties from SASL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_auxprop_request\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char **\fR\fIpropnames\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_auxprop_request()\fR interface requests that the SASL library
obtain properties form any auxialiary property plugins that might be installed,
for example, the user's home directory from an LDAP server. The lookup occurs
just after username canonicalization is complete. Therefore, the request should
be made before the call to \fBsasl_server_start\fR(3SASL), but after the call
to \fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fBsasl_conn_t\fR for which the request is being made
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpropnames\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A null-terminated array of property names to request. This array must persist
until a call to \fBsasl_dispose\fR(3SASL) on the \fBsasl_conn_t\fR.
.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_auxprop_request()\fR returns \fBSASL_OK\fR upon success. See
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for a discussion of other SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_dispose\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL),
\fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_server_start\fR(3SASL),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
