'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_AUTHORIZE_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_authorize_t \- the SASL authorization callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_authorize_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIrequested_user\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIalen\fR, \fBconst char*\fR \fIauth_identity\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIrlen\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIdef_realm\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIurlen\fR, \fBstruct propctx *\fR\fIpropctx\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_authorize_t()\fR is a typedef function prototype that defines the
interface associated with the \fBSASL_CB_PROXY_POLICY\fR callback.
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_authorize_t()\fR interface to check whether the authorized user
\fIauth_identity\fR can act as the user \fIrequested_user\fR. For example, the
user \fBroot\fR may want to authenticate with \fBroot\fR's credentials but as
the user \fBtmartin\fR, with all of \fBtmartin\fR's rights, not \fBroot\fR's. A
server application should be very careful when it determines which users may
proxy as other users.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrequested_user\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The identity or username to authorize. \fIrequested_user\fR is null-terminated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The length of \fIrequested_user\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIauth_identity\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The identity associated with the secret. \fIauth_identity\fR is
null-terminated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIalen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The length of \fIauth_identity\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdefault_realm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The default user realm as passed to \fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIulren\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
The length of the default realm
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpropctx\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Auxiliary properties
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_authorize_t()\fR returns an integer
that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list
of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_authorize_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
