'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_GETCALLBACK_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_getcallback_t \- callback function to lookup a sasl_callback_t for a
connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/saslplug.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getcallback_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBunsigned long\fR \fIcallbacknum\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fI(**proc)\fR( ), \fBvoid **\fR\fIpcontext\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_getcallback_t()\fR function is a callback to lookup a
sasl_callback_t for a connection.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The connection to lookup a callback for.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallbacknum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The number of the callback.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIproc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Pointer to the callback function. The value of \fIproc\fR is set to \fINULL\fR
upon failure.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Pointer to the callback context. The value of \fIpcontext\fR is set to
\fINULL\fR upon failure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_getcallback_t()\fR returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The call to \fBsasl_getcallback_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_FAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Unable to find a callback of the requested type.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_INTERACT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The caller must use interaction to get data.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
