'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_VERIFYFILE_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_verifyfile_t \- the SASL file verification callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

typedef enum {
       SASL_VRFY_PLUGIN,       /* a DLL/shared library plugin */
       SASL_VRFY_CONF,         /* a configuration file */
       SASL_VRFY_PASSWD,       /* a password storage file */
       SASL_VRFY_OTHER         /* some other file type */
} sasl_verify_tyep_t

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_verifyfile_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIfile\fR,
     \fBsasl_verifyfile_t\fR \fItype\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR callback function check whether a given file
can be used by the SASL library. Applications use \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR to
check the environment to ensure that plugins or configuration files cannot be
written to.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The context from the callback record
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIfile\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The full path of the file to verify
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fItype\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The type of the file
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_verifyfile_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
