'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_DECODE 3SASL "Aug 28, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_decode \- decode data received
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_decode\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIinput\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIinputlen\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fR\fIoutput\fR, \fBunsigned *\fR\fIoutputlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_decode()\fR interface to decode data received. After
authentication, call this function on all data received. The data is decoded
from encrypted or signed form to plain data. If no security lay is negotiated,
the output is identical to the input.
.sp
.LP
Do not give \fBsasl_decode()\fR more data than the negotiated \fBmaxbufsize\fR.
See \fBsasl_getprop\fR(3SASL).
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_decode()\fR can complete successfully although the value of
\fIoutputlen\fR is zero. If this is the case, wait for more data and call
\fBsasl_decode()\fR again.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinput\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Data received.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIinputlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The length of \fIinput\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoutput\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The decoded data. \fIoutput\fR must be allocated or freed by the library.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoutputlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The length of \fIoutput\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_decode()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_decode()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_getprop\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
