'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_SETPASS 3SASL "Oct 15, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_setpass \- set the password for a user
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_setpass\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIuser\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIpass\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIpasslen\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIoldpass\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIoldpasslen\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_setpass()\fR interface to set passwords. \fBsasl_setpass()\fR
uses the \fBSASL_CB_SERVER_USERDB_SETPASS\fR callback, if one is supplied.
Additionally, if any server mechanism plugins supply a setpass callback, the
setpass callback would be called. None of the server mechanism plugins
currently supply a setpass callback.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The SASL connection context
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The username for which the password is set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpass\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The password to set
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpasslen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The length of \fIpass\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoldpass\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The old password, which is optional
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoldpasslen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The length of \fIoldpass\fR, which is optional
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Refers to flags, including, \fBSASL_SET_CREATE\fR and \fBSASL_SET_DISABLE\fR.
Use these flags to create and disable accounts.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_setpass()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_setpass()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_getprop\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
