'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_IDLE 3SASL "Aug 28, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_idle \- perform precalculations during an idle period
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_idle\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_idle()\fR interface during an idle period to allow the SASL
library or any mechanisms to perform any necessary precalculation.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
The SASL connection context. The value of \fIconn\fR can be \fINULL\fR in order
to complete a precalculation before the connection takes place.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_idle()\fR returns the following values:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Indicates action was taken
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB0\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
Indicates no action was taken
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
