'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH sasl_decode64 3SASL "16 Sep 2003" "SunOS 5.11" "Simple Authentication Security Layer Library Functions"
.SH NAME
sasl_decode64 \- decode base64 string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/saslutil.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_decode64\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIin\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIinlen\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIout\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIoutmax\fR,\fBunsigned *\fR\fIoutlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_decode64()\fR interface to decode a base64 encoded buffer.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIin\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
Input data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIinlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The length of the input data.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIout\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The output data. The value of \fIout\fR can be the same as \fIin\fR. However,
there must be enough space.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoutlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The length of the actual output.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIoutmax\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
.rt  
The maximum size of the output buffer.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_decode64()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
.rt  
The call to \fBsasl_decode64()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityEvolving
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
