'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_SERVER_STEP 3SASL "Oct 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_step \- perform a step in the server authentication negotiation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_step\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char  *\fR\fIclientin\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIclientinlen\fR, \fBconst char  **\fR\fIserverout\fR,
     \fBunsigned *\fR\fIserveroutlen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_server_step()\fR performs a step in the authentication negotiation.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The SASL context for this connection.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIclientin\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The data given by the client. The data is decoded if the protocol encodes
requests that are sent over the wire.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIclientinlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The length of \fIclientin\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserverout\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIserveroutlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Set by the library and sent to the client.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_server_step()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The whole authentication completed successfully.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_CONTINUE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The call to \fBsasl_server_step()\fR was successful, and at least one more step
is needed for the authentication.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that you must handle, or you
should quit the authentication session. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
