'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_SERVER_NEW 3SASL "Oct 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_new \- create a new server authentication object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_new\fR(\fBconst char  *\fR\fIservice\fR, \fBconst char  *\fR\fIserverFQDN\fR,
     \fBconst char  *\fR\fIuser_realm\fR, \fBconst char  *\fR\fIiplocalport\fR,
     \fBconst char  *\fR\fIipremoteport\fR, \fBconst sasl_callback_t *\fR\fIcallbacks\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBsasl_conn_t **\fR\fIpconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_server_new()\fR interface to create a new SASL context. This
context will be used for all SASL calls for one connection. The new SASL
context handles both authentication and integrity or encryption layers after
authentication.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIservice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The registered name of the service that uses SASL. The registered name is
usually the protocol name, for example, IMAP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserverFQDN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The fully-qualified server domain name. If the value of \fIserverFQDN\fR is
\fINULL\fR, use \fBgethostname\fR(3C). The \fIserverFQDN\fR parameter is useful
for multi-homed servers.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser_realm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The domain of the user agent. The \fIuser_realm\fR is usually not necessary.
The default value of \fIuser_realm\fR is \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIiplocalport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.sp
.LP
The IP address and port of the local side of the connection. The value of
\fIiplocalport\fR may be \fINULL\fR. If \fIiplocalport\fR is \fINULL\fR,
mechanisms that require IP address information are disabled. The
\fIiplocalport\fR string must be in one of the following formats:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBa.b.c.d:port\fR (IPv4)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB[e:f:g:h:i:j:k:l]:port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB[e:f:g:h:i:j:a.b.c.d]:port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.sp
.LP
The following older formats are also supported:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBa.b.c.d;port\fR (IPv4)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBe:f:g:h:i:j:k:l;port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBe:f:g:h:i:j:a.b.c.d;port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIipremoteport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The IP address and port of the remote side of the connection. The value of
\fIipremoteport\fR may be \fINULL\fR. See \fIiplocalport\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallbacks\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Callbacks, for example: authorization, lang, and new getopt context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Usage flags. For servers, the flags \fBSASL_NEED_PROXY\fR and
\fBSASL_SUCCESS_DATA\fR are available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A pointer to the connection context allocated by the library. This structure
will be used for all future SASL calls for this connection.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_server_new()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_server_new()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the
authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBgethostname\fR(3C), \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
