'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_CHECKAPOP 3SASL "Oct 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_checkapop \- check an APOP challenge or response
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_checkapop\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIchallenge\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIchallen\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIresponse\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIresplen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_checkapop()\fR interface checks an APOP challenge or response. APOP
is an option POP3 authentication command that uses a shared secret password.
See \fIRFC 1939\fR.
.sp
.LP
If \fBsasl_checkapop()\fR is called with a \fINULL\fR challenge,
\fBsasl_checkapop()\fR will check to see if the APOP mechanism is enabled.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fBsasl_conn_t\fR for which the request is being made
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIchallenge\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The challenge sent to the client
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIchallen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The length of \fIchallenge\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresponse\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The client response
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresplens\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The length of \fIresponse\fR
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_checkapop()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
Indicates that the authentication is complete
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the
authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	SUNWlibsasl
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
Meyers, J. and Rose, M. \fIRFC 1939, Post Office Protocol - Version 3\fR.
Network Working Group. May 1996.
