'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_GETSECRET_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_getsecret_t \- the SASL callback function for secrets (passwords)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getsecret_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR,
     \fBint\fR \fIid\fR, \fBsasl_secret_t **\fR\fIpsecret\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_getsecret_t()\fR function to retrieve the secret from the
application. Allocate a \fBsasl_secret_t\fR to length
\fBsizeof(sasl_secret_t)+<length of secret>\fR. \fBsasl_secret_t\fR has two
fields of \fIlen\fR which contain the length of \fIsecret\fR in bytes and the
data contained in \fIsecret\fR. The \fIsecret\fR string does not need to be
null-terminated.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The connection context
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The context from the callback structure
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The callback ID
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpsecret\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
To cancel, set the value of \fIpsecret\fR to \fINULL\fR. Otherwise, set the
value to the password structure. The structure must persist until the next call
to \fBsasl_getsecret_t()\fR in the same connection. Middleware erases password
data when it is done with it.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_getsecret_t()\fR returns an integer
that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list
of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_getsecret_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
