'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_AUXPROP_ADD_PLUGIN 3SASL "Sep 16, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_auxprop_add_plugin \- add a SASL auxiliary property plug-in
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/saslplug.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_auxprop_add_plugin\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIplugname\fR,
     \fBsasl_auxprop_plug_init_t *\fR\fIcplugfunc\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_auxprop_add_plugin()\fR interface to add a auxiliary property
plug-in to the current list of auxiliary property plug-ins in the SASL library.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIplugname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The name of the auxiliary property plug-in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcplugfunc\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The value of \fIcplugfunc\fR is filled in by the \fBsasl_auxprop_plug_init_t\fR
structure.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_auxprop_add_plugin()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL
error code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The call to \fBsasl_client_add_plugin()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_BADVERS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Version mismatch with plug-in.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Memory shortage failure.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on other SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
