'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_SERVER_INIT 3SASL "Oct 22, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_init \- SASL server authentication initialization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_init\fR(\fBconst sasl_callback *\fR\fIcallbacks\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIappname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_server_init()\fR interface to initialize SASL. You must call
\fBsasl_server_init()\fR before you make a call to \fBsasl_server_start()\fR.
\fBsasl_server_init()\fR may be called only once per process. A call to
\fBsasl_server_init()\fR initializes all SASL mechanism drivers, that is, the
authentication mechanisms. The SASL mechanism drivers are usually found in the
\fB/usr/lib/sasl\fR directory.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcallbacks\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specifies the base callbacks for all client connections.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIappname\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The name of the application for lower level logging. For example, the sendmail
server calls \fIappname\fR this way:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
sasl_server_init(srvcallbacks, "Sendmail")
.fi
.in -2

.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_server_init()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_server_init()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the
authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
While most of \fBlibsasl\fR is MT-Safe, no other \fBlibsasl\fR function should
be called until this function completes.
