'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_CLIENT_NEW 3SASL "Aug 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_client_new \- create a new client authentication object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_client_new\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIservice\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIserverFQDN\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fIiplocalport\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIipremoteport\fR,
     \fBconst sasl_callback_t *\fR\fIprompt_supp\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR,
     \fBsasl_conn_t **\fR\fIpconn\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_client_new()\fR interface to create a new SASL context. This
SASL context will be used for all SASL calls for one connection. The context
handles both authentication and the integrity and encryption layers after
authentication.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIservice\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The registered name of the service that uses SASL, usually the protocol name,
for example, IMAP.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIserverFQDN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The fully qualified domain name of the server, for example, serverhost.cmu.edu.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIiplocalport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
.sp
.LP
The IP and port of the local side of the connection, or \fINULL\fR. If
\fIiplocalport\fR is \fINULL\fR, mechanisms that require IP address information
are disabled. The \fIiplocalport\fR string must be in one of the following
formats:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBa.b.c.d:port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB[e:f:g:h:i:j:k:l]:port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fB[e:f:g:h:i:j:a.b.c.d]:port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBa.b.c.d;port\fR (IPv4)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBe:f:g:h:i:j:k:l;port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fBe:f:g:h:i:j:a.b.c.d;port\fR (IPv6)
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIipremoteport\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The IP and port of the remote side of the connection, or \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprompt_supp\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A list of the client interactions supported that are unique to this connection.
If this parameter is \fINULL\fR, the global callbacks specified in
\fBsasl_client_init\fR(3SASL) are used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Usage flags. For clients, the flag \fBSASL_NEED_PROXY\fR is available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
The connection context allocated by the library. The \fIpconn\fR structure is
used for all future SASL calls for this connection.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_client_new()\fR returns an integer that corresponds to a SASL error
code.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The call to \fBsasl_client_new()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_NOMECH\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
No mechanishm meets the requested properties.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_BADPARAM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
There is an error in the configuration file or passed parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_NOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
There is not enough memory to complete the operation.
.RE

.sp
.LP
All other error codes indicate an error situation that must be handled, or the
authentication session should be quit. See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for
information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_client_init\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
