'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_SET_MUTEX 3SASL "Oct 22, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_set_mutex \- set the mutex lock functions used by the SASL library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBvoid\fR \fBsasl_set_mutex\fR(\fBsasl_mutex_alloc_t *\fR\fIa\fR, \fBsasl_mutex_lock_t *\fR\fIl\fR,
     \fBsasl_mutex_unlock_t *\fR\fIu\fR, \fBsasl_mutex_free_t *\fR\fIf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_set_mutex()\fR interface to set the mutex lock routines that
the SASL library and plug-ins will use.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIa\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
A pointer to the mutex lock allocation function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIf\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
A pointer to the mutex free or destroy function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIl\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
A pointer to the mutex lock function
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIu\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 5n
A pointer to the mutex unlock function
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_set_mutex()\fR has no return values.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Obsolete
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
While most of \fBlibsasl\fR is MT-Safe, \fBsasl_set_*\fR modifies the global
state and should be considered Unsafe.
