'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_GETPATH_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_getpath_t \- the SASL callback function to indicate location of the
security mechanism drivers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getpath_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBchar **\fR\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_getpath_t()\fR function to enable the application to use a
different location for the SASL security mechanism drivers, which are shared
library files. If the \fBsasl_getpath_t()\fR callback is not used, SASL uses
\fB/usr/lib/sasl\fR by default.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The getpath context from the callback record
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpath\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The path(s) for the location of the SASL security mechanism drivers. The values
for \fIpath\fR are colon-separated.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_getpath_t()\fR returns an integer
that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list
of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_getpath_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
