'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_SERVER_PLUG_INIT_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_server_plug_init_t \- server plug-in entry point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/saslplug.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_server_plug_init_t\fR(\fBconst sasl_utils_t *\fR\fIutils\fR, \fBint\fR \fImax_version\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIout_version\fR, \fBsasl_client_plug_t **\fR\fIpluglist\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIplugcount\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_server_plug_init_t()\fR callback function is the server plug-in
entry point.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIutils\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The utility callback functions.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImax_version\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The highest server plug-in version supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIout_version\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The server plug-in version of the result.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpluglist\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The list of server mechanism plug-ins.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIplugcount\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The number of server mechanism plug-ins.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_server_plug_init_t()\fR returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_server_plug_init_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
