'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_GETREALM_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_getrealm_t \- the realm acquisition callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getrealm_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBint\fR \fIid\fR, \fBconst char **\fR\fIavailrealms\fR,
     \fBconst char **\fR\fIresult\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_getrealm_t()\fR functionwhen there is an interaction with
\fBSASL_CB_GETREALM\fR as the type.
.sp
.LP
If a mechanism would use this callback, but it is not present, then the first
realm listed is automatically selected. A mechanism can still force the
existence of a getrealm callback by \fBSASL_CB_GETREALM\fR to its
\fBrequired_prompts\fR list.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The context from the callback record
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIid\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The callback ID (\fBSASL_CB_GETREALM\fR)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIavailrealms\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A string list of the vailable realms. \fIavailrealms\fR is a null-terminated
sting that can be empty.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIresult\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The chosen realm. \fIresult\fR is a null-terminated string.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_getrealm_t()\fR returns an integer
that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list
of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_getrealm_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
