'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_LOG_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_log_t \- the SASL logging callback function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_log_t\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBint\fR \fIlevel\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fImessage\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_log_t()\fR function to log warning and error messages from the
SASL library. \fBsyslog\fR(3C) is used, unless another logging function is
specified.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The logging context from the callback record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlevel\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The logging level. Possible values for \fIlevel\fR include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_NONE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Do not log anything.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_ERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log unusual errors. This is the default log level.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_FAIL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log all authentication failures.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_WARN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log non-fatal warnings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_NOTE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log non-fatal warnings (more verbose than \fBSASL_LOG_WARN\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_DEBUG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log non-fatal warnings (more verbose than \fBSASL_LOG_NOTE\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_TRACE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log traces of internal protocols.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_LOG_PASS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Log traces of internal protocols, including passwords.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImessage\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The message to log
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_log_t()\fR returns an integer that
corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a complete list of
SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_log_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsyslog\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
