'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_GETPROP 3SASL "Oct 14, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_getprop \- get a SASL property
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_getprop\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBint\fR \fIpropnum\fR, \fBconst void **\fR\fIpvalue\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Use the \fBsasl_getprop()\fR interface to get the value of a SASL property. For
example, after successful authentication, a server may want to know the
authorization name. Similarly, a client application may want to know the
strength of the security level that was negotiated.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpropnum\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The identifier for the property requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpvalue\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The value of the SASL property. This value is filled in upon a successful call.
Possible SASL values include:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_USERNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
A pointer to a null-terminated user name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_SSF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The security layer security strength factor. If the value of \fBSASL_SSF\fR is
0, a call to \fBsasl_encode()\fR or \fBsasl_decode()\fR is unnecessary.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_MAXOUTBUF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The maximum size of output buffer returned by the selected security mechanism
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_DEFUSERREALM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Server authentication realm used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_GETOPTCTX\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The context for \fBgetopt()\fR callback.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_IPLOCALPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Local address string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_IPREMOTEPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Remote address string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_SERVICE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Service passed on to \fBsasl_*_new()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_SERVERFQDN\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Server FQDN passed on to \fBsasl_*_new()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_AUTHSOURCE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Name of authentication source last used. Useful for failed authentication
tracking.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_MECHNAME\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Active mechanism name, if any.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_PLUGERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Similar to \fBsasl_errdetail()\fR.
.RE

.RE

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_getprop()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
