'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2003, Carnegie Mellon Univeristy.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (C) 2003, Sun Microsystems,
.\" Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH SASL_CANON_USER_T 3SASL "Oct 27, 2003"
.SH NAME
sasl_canon_user_t \- the canon user callback
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lsasl\fR   [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <sasl/sasl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsasl_canon_user_t\fR(\fBsasl_conn_t *\fR\fIconn\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIcontext\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIuser\fR,
     \fBunsigned\fR \fIulen\fR, \fBunsigned\fR \fIflags\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIuser_realm\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIout_user\fR,
     \fBunsigned *\fR\fIout_umax\fR, \fBunsigned *\fR\fIout_ulen\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBsasl_canon_user_t()\fR interface is the callback function for an
application-supplied user canonical function. This function is subject to the
requirements of all canonical functions. It must copy the result into the
output buffers, but the output buffers and the input buffers can be the same.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The SASL connection context.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The context from the callback record.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
User name. The form of \fIuser\fR is not canonical.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIulen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Length of \fIuser\fR. The form of \fIulen\fR is not canonical.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIflags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
One of the following values, or a bitwise OR of both:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_CU_AUTHID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Indicates the authentication ID is canonical
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_CU_AUTHZID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 19n
Indicates the authorization ID is canonical
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser_realm\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Realm of authentication.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIout_user\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The output buffer for the user name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIout_max\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The maximum length for the user name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIout_len\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The actual length for the user name.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Like  other SASL callback functions, \fBsasl_canon_user_t()\fR returns an
integer that corresponds to a SASL error code. See <\fBsasl.h\fR> for a
complete list of SASL error codes.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSASL_OK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 11n
The call to \fBsasl_canon_user_t()\fR was successful.
.RE

.sp
.LP
See \fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL) for information on SASL error codes.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsasl_errors\fR(3SASL), \fBsasl_server_new\fR(3SASL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
