'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_CR_REJECT 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_cr_reject \- reject a Connection Request from the Active remote side
requesting Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cr_reject (
    IN    DAT_CR_HANDLE    cr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Handle to an instance of a Connection Request that the Consumer is rejecting.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_cr_reject()\fR function rejects a Connection Request from the Active
remote side requesting Endpoint. If the Provider passed a local Endpoint into a
Consumer for the Public Service Point-created Connection Request, that Endpoint
reverts to Provider Control. The behavior of an operation on that Endpoint is
undefined. The local Endpoint that the Consumer provided for Reserved Service
Point reverts to Consumer control, and the Consumer is free to use in any way
it wants.
.sp
.LP
The operation is synchronous. This operation also destroys the Connection
Request instance. Use of the handle of the destroyed Connection Request in any
consequent operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIcr_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
