'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_GET_HANDLE_TYPE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_get_handle_type \- get handle type
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_get_handle_typet (
    IN    DAT_HANDLE        \fIdat_handle\fR,
    OUT   DAT_HANDLE_TYPE   *\fIhandle_type\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdat_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Handle for a DAT Object.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhandle_type\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Type of the handle of \fIdat_handle\fR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_get_handle_type()\fR function allows the Consumer to discover the
type of a DAT Object using its handle.
.sp
.LP
The \fIdat_handle\fR can be one of the following handle types:
\fBDAT_IA_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_EP_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_EVD_HANDLE\fR,
\fBDAT_CR_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_RSP_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_PSP_HANDLE\fR,
\fBDAT_PZ_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_LMR_HANDLE\fR, or \fBDAT_RMR_HANDLE\fR.
.sp
.LP
The \fIhandle_type\fR is one of the following handle types:
\fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_IA\fR, \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_EP\fR, \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_EVD\fR,
\fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_CR\fR, \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_PSP\fR, \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_RSP\fR,
\fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_PZ\fR, \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_LMR\fR, \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_RMR\fR,
or \fBDAT_HANDLE_TYPE_CNO\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIdat_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Consumers can use this operation to determine the type of Object being
returned. This is needed for calling an appropriate query or any other
operation on the Object handle.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
