'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EP_QUERY 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_query \- provide parameters of the Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_query (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE        ep_handle,
    IN    DAT_EP_PARAM_MASK    ep_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_EP_PARAM         *ep_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Handle for an instance of the Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_param_mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Mask for Endpoint parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_param\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills with Endpoint
parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_ep_query()\fR function provides the Consumer parameters, including
attributes and status, of the Endpoint. Consumers pass in a pointer to
Consumer-allocated structures for Endpoint parameters that the Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The \fIep_param_mask\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters
to query. The Provider returns values for \fIep_param_mask\fR requested
parameters. The Provider can return values for any other parameters.
.sp
.LP
Some of the parameters only have values for certain Endpoint states.
Specifically, the values for \fIremote_ia_address\fR and \fIremote_port_qual\fR
are valid only for Endpoints in the
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_ACTIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECT_PENDING\fR, \fBDAT_EP_STATE_COMPLETION_PENDING\fR,
or \fBDAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED\fR states. The values of \fIlocal_port_qual\fR is
valid only for Endpoints in the \fBDAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_ACTIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECT_PENDING\fR, \fBDAT_EP_STATE_COMPLETION_PENDING\fR,
or \fBDAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED\fR states, and might be valid for
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED\fR, \fBDAT_EP_STATE_RESERVED\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR, and
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED\fR states.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIep_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIep_param_mask\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
