'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_RSP_CREATE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_rsp_create \- create a Reserved Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rsp_create (
    IN    DAT_IA_HANDLE    ia_handle,
    IN    DAT_CONN_QUAL    conn_qual,
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE    ep_handle,
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE   evd_handle,
    OUT   DAT_RSP_HANDLE   *rsp_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIia_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of DAT IA.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconn_qual\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Connection Qualifier of the IA the Reserved Service Point listens to.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for the Endpoint associated with the Reserved Service Point that is the
only Endpoint that can accept a Connection Request on this Service Point. The
value \fBDAT_HANDLE_NULL\fR requests the Provider to associate a
Provider-created Endpoint with this Service Point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
The Event Dispatcher to which an event of Connection Request arrival is
generated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrsp_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle to an opaque Reserved Service Point.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rsp_create()\fR function creates a Reserved Service Point with the
specified Endpoint that generates, at most, one Connection Request that is
delivered to the specified Event Dispatcher in a Notification event.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIia_handle\fR, \fIevd_handle\fR, or \fIep_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIconn_qual\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Parameter in an invalid state. For example, an Endpoint was not in the Idle
state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_CONN_QUAL_IN_USE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Specified Connection Qualifier is in use.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The usage of a Reserve Service Point is as follows:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The DAT Consumer creates a Local Endpoint and configures it appropriately.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The DAT Consumer creates a Reserved Service Point specifying the Local
Endpoint.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Reserved Service Point performs the following:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Collects native transport information reflecting a received Connection Request.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Creates a Pending Connection Request.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Creates a Connection Request Notice (event) that includes the Pending
Connection Request (which includes, among others, Reserved Service Point
Connection Qualifier, its Local Endpoint, and information about remote
Endpoint).
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Delivers the Connection Request Notice to the Consumer-specified target (CNO)
\fIevd_handle\fR. The Local Endpoint is transitioned from Reserved to Passive
Connection Pending state.
.RE
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Upon receiving a connection request, or at some time subsequent to that, the
DAT Consumer must either \fBaccept()\fR or \fBreject()\fR the Pending
Connection Request.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If accepted, the original Local Endpoint is now in a \fBConnected\fR state and
fully usable for this connection, pending only native transport mandated RTU
messages. This includes binding it to the IA port if that was not done
previously. The Consumer is notified that the Endpoint is in a \fBConnected\fR
state by a Connection Established Event on the Endpoint
\fIconnect_evd_handle\fR.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
If rejected, the Local Endpoint point transitions into \fBUnconnected\fR state.
The DAT Consumer can elect to destroy it or reuse it for other purposes.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
