'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_PROVIDER_FINI 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_provider_fini \- disassociate the Provider from a given IA name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

void
    dat_provider_fini (
    IN    const DAT_PROVIDER_INFO    *provider_info
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprovider_info\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
The information that was provided when dat_provider_init was called.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
A destructor the Registry calls on a Provider before it disassociates the
Provider from a given IA name.
.sp
.LP
The Provider can use this method to undo any initialization it performed when
\fBdat_provider_init\fR(3DAT) was called for the same IA name. The Provider's
implementation of this method should call
\fBdat_registry_remove_provider\fR(3DAT) to unregister its IA Name. If it does
not, the Registry might remove the entry itself.
.sp
.LP
This method can be called for a given IA name at any time after all open
instances of that IA are closed, and is certainly called before the Registry
unloads the Provider library. However, it is not called more than once without
an intervening call to \fBdat_provider_init()\fR for that IA name.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
No values are returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_provider_init\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_registry_remove_provider\fR(3DAT),
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
