'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_LMR_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_lmr_free \- destroy an instance of the LMR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_lmr_free (
    IN    DAT_LMR_HANDLE    lmr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlmr_handle:\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Handle for an instance of LMR to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_lmr_free()\fR function destroys an instance of the LMR. The LMR
cannot be destroyed if it is in use by an RMR. The operation does not
deallocate the memory region or unpin memory on a host.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed LMR in any subsequent operation except for
\fBdat_lmr_free()\fR fails. Any DTO operation that uses the destroyed LMR after
the \fBdat_lmr_free()\fR is completed shall fail and report a protection
violation. The use of \fIrmr_context\fR of the destroyed LMR by a remote peer
for an RDMA DTO results in an error and broken connection on which it was used.
Any remote RDMA operation that uses the destroyed LMR rmr_context\fI\fR, whose
Transport-specific request arrived to the local host after the
\fBdat_lmr_free()\fR has completed, fails and reports a protection violation.
Remote RDMA operation that uses the destroyed LMR \fIrmr_context\fR, whose
Transport-specific request arrived to the local host prior to the
\fBdat_lmr_free()\fR returns, might or might not complete successfully. If it
fails, \fBDAT_DTO_ERR_REMOTE_ACCESS\fR is reported in
\fBDAT_DTO_COMPLETION_STATUS\fR for the remote RDMA DTO and the connection is
broken.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIlmr_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Parameter in an invalid state; LMR is in use by an RMR instance.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
