'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EP_DISCONNECT 3DAT "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_disconnect \- terminate a connection or a connection establishment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_disconnect (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE      ep_handle,
    IN    DAT_CLOSE_FLAGS    disconnect_flags
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Handle for an instance of Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdisconnect_flags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Flags for disconnect. Flag values are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_CLOSE_ABRUPT_FLAG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Abrupt close. This is the default value.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_CLOSE_GRACEFUL_FLAG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
Graceful close.
.RE

.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBdat_ep_disconnect()\fR function requests a termination of a connection
or connection establishment. This operation is used by the active/client or a
passive/server side Consumer of the connection model.
.sp
.LP
The \fIdisconnect_flags\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify whether they
want graceful or abrupt disconnect. Upon disconnect, all outstanding and
in-progress DTOs and RMR Binds must be completed.
.sp
.LP
For abrupt disconnect, all outstanding DTOs and RMR Binds are completed
unsuccessfully, and in-progress DTOs and RMR Binds can be completed
successfully or unsuccessfully. If an in-progress DTO is completed
unsuccessfully, all follow on in-progress DTOs in the same direction also must
be completed unsuccessfully. This order is presented to the Consumer through a
DTO completion Event Stream of the \fIrecv_evd_handle\fR and
\fIrequest_evd_handle\fR of the Endpoint.
.sp
.LP
For graceful disconnect, all outstanding and in-progress request DTOs and RMR
Binds must try to be completed successfully first, before disconnect proceeds.
During that time, the local Endpoint is in a \fBDAT_EP_DISCONNECT_PENDING\fR
state.
.sp
.LP
The Consumer can call abrupt \fBdat_ep_disconnect()\fR when the local Endpoint
is in the \fBDAT_EP_DISCONNECT_PENDING\fR state. This causes the Endpoint to
transition into \fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR without waiting for outstanding
and in-progress request DTOs and RMR Binds to successfully complete. The
graceful \fBdat_ep_disconnect()\fR call when the local Endpoint is in the
\fBDAT_EP_DISCONNECT_PENDING\fR state has no effect.
.sp
.LP
If the Endpoint is not in \fBDAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED\fR, the semantic of the
operation is the same for graceful or abrupt \fIdisconnect_flags\fR value.
.sp
.LP
No new Send, RDMA Read, and RDMA Write DTOs, or RMR Binds can be posted to the
Endpoint when the local Endpoint is in the \fBDAT_EP_DISCONNECT_PENDING\fR
state.
.sp
.LP
The successful completion of the disconnect is reported to the Consumer through
a \fBDAT_CONNECTION_EVENT_DISCONNECTED\fR event on \fIconnect_evd_handle\fR of
the Endpoint. The Endpoint is automatically transitioned into a
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR state upon successful asynchronous completion.
If the same EVD is used for \fIconnect_evd_handle\fR and any
\fIrecv_evd_handle\fR and request_evd_handle, all successful Completion events
of in-progress DTOs precede the Disconnect Completion event.
.sp
.LP
Disconnecting an unconnected Disconnected Endpoint is no-op. Disconnecting an
Endpoint in \fBDAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED\fR, \fBDAT_EP_STATE_RESERVED\fR,
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_PASSIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR, and
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_TENTATIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR is disallowed.
.sp
.LP
Both abrupt and graceful disconnect of the Endpoint during connection
establishment, \fBDAT_EP_STATE_ACTIVE_CONNECTION_PENDING\fR and
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_COMPLETION_PENDING\fR, "aborts" the connection establishment
and transitions the local Endpoint into \fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR. That
causes preposted Recv DTOs to be flushed to \fIrecv_evd_handle\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIep_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIdisconnect_flags\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
A parameter is in an invalid state. Endpoint is not in the valid state for
disconnect.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	 Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
