'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_RSP_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_rsp_free \- destroy an instance of the Reserved Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rsp_free (
    IN    DAT_RSP_HANDLE    rsp_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrsp_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of the Reserved Service Point.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rsp_free()\fR function destroys a specified instance of the Reserved
Service Point.
.sp
.LP
Any incoming Connection Requests for the Connection Qualifier on the destroyed
Service Point was listening on are automatically rejected by the Provider with
the return analogous to the no listening Service Point.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of the Connection Requests in progress is undefined and left to an
implementation, but it must be consistent. This means that either a Connection
Requested Event was generated for the Event Dispatcher associated with the
Service Point, including the creation of the Connection Request instance, or
the Connection Request is rejected by the Provider without any local
notification.
.sp
.LP
This operation has no effect on previously generated Connection Request Event
and Connection Request.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of this operation with creation of a Service Point on the same
Connection Qualifier at the same time is not defined. Consumers are advised to
avoid this scenario.
.sp
.LP
For the Reserved Service Point, the Consumer-provided Endpoint reverts to
Consumer control. Consumers shall be aware that due to a race condition, this
Reserved Service Point might have generated a Connection Request Event and
passed the associated Endpoint to a Consumer in it.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Service Point in any consequent operation
fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIrsp_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
