'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_CNO_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_cno_free \- destroy an instance of the CNO
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cno_free (
    IN    DAT_CNO_HANDLE    \fIcno_handle\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcno_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of the CNO
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_cno_free()\fR function destroys a specified instance of the CNO.
.sp
.LP
A CNO cannot be deleted while it is referenced by an Event Dispatcher or while
a thread is blocked on it.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fBcno_handle()\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Parameter in an invalid state. CNO is in use by an EVD instance or there is a
thread blocked on it.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If there is a thread blocked in \fBdat_cno_wait\fR(3DAT), the Consumer can do
the following steps to unblock the waiter:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Create a temporary EVD that accepts software events. It can be created in
advance.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
For a CNO with the waiter, attach that EVD to the CNO and post the software
event on the EVD.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
This unblocks the CNO.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Repeat for other CNOs that have blocked waiters.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Destroy the temporary EVD after all CNOs are destroyed and the EVD is no longer
needed.
.RE
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_cno_wait\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
