'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EP_RESET 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_reset \- transition the local Endpoint from a Disconnected to an
Unconnected state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_reset (
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE    ep_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Handle for an instance of Endpoint.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_ep_reset()\fR function transitions the local Endpoint from a
Disconnected to an Unconnected state.
.sp
.LP
The operation might cause the loss of any completions of previously posted DTOs
and RMRs that were not dequeued yet.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_ep_reset()\fR function is valid for both Disconnected and
Unconnected states. For Unconnected state, the operation is no-op because the
Endpoint is already in an Unconnected state. For an Unconnected state, the
preposted Recvs are not affected by the call.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
ep_handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Parameter in an invalid state. Endpoint is not in the valid state for reset.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the Consumer wants to ensure that all Completions are dequeued, the Consumer
can post DTO or RMR operations as a "marker" that are flushed to
\fIrecv_evd_handle\fR or \fIrequest_evd_handle\fR. Now, when the Consumer
dequeues the completion of the "marker" from the EVD, it is guaranteed that all
previously posted DTO and RMR completions for the Endpoint were dequeued for
that EVD. Now,  it is safe to reset the Endpoint without losing any
completions.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
