'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_RMR_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_free \- destroy an instance of the RMR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_free (
    IN    DAT_RMR_HANDLE    rmr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of the RMR to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_free()\fR function destroys an instance of the RMR.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed RMR in any subsequent operation except for
the \fBdat_rmr_free()\fR fails. Any remote RDMA operation that uses the
destroyed RMR \fIrmr_context\fR, whose Transport-specific request arrived to
the local host after the \fBdat_rmr_free()\fR has completed, fails and reports
a protection violation. Remote RDMA operation that uses the destroyed RMR
\fIrmr_context\fR, whose Transport-specific request arrived to the local host
prior to the \fBdat_rmr_free()\fR return, might or might not complete
successfully. If it fails, \fBDAT_DTO_ERR_REMOTE_ACCESS\fR is reported in
\fBDAT_DTO_COMPLETION_STATUS\fR for the remote RDMA DTO and the connection is
broken.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_free()\fR function is allowed on either bound or unbound RMR. If
RMR is bound, \fBdat_rmr_free()\fR unbinds (free HCA TPT and other resources
and whatever else binds with length of 0 should do), and then free RMR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIrmr_handle\fR handle is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
