'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_CNO_MODIFY_AGENT 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_cno_modify_agent \- modify the OS Wait Proxy Agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cno_modify_agent (
    IN    DAT_CNO_HANDLE            \fIcno_handle\fR,
    IN    DAT_OS_WAIT_PROXY_AGENT   \fIagent\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcno_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of CNO
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIagent\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Pointer to an optional OS Wait Proxy Agent to invoke whenever CNO is invoked.
\fBDAT_OS_WAIT_PROXY_AGENT_NULL\fR indicates that there is no proxy agent.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_cno_modify_agent()\fR function modifies the OS Wait Proxy Agent
associated with a CNO. If non-null, any trigger received by the CNO is also
passed to the OS Wait Proxy Agent. This is in addition to any local delivery
through the CNO. The Consumer can pass the value of
\fBDAT_OS_WAIT_PROXY_AGENT_NULL\fR to disassociate the current Proxy agent from
the CNO
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIcno_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
One of the parameters was invalid, out of range, or a combination of parameters
was invalid, or the \fIagent\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
