'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EVD_RESIZE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_evd_resize \- modify the size of the event queue of Event Dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_evd_resize(
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE    \fIevd_handle\fR,
    IN    DAT_COUNT         \fIevd_min_qlen\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Handle for an instance of Event Dispatcher.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevd_min_qlen\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
New number of events the Event Dispatcher event queue must hold.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_evd_resize()\fR function modifies the size of the event queue of
Event Dispatcher.
.sp
.LP
Resizing of Event Dispatcher event queue should not cause any incoming or
current events on the event queue to be lost. If the number of entries on the
event queue is larger then the requested evd_min_qlen\fI\fR, the operation can
return \fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR and not change an instance of Event Dispatcher
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIevd_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIevd_min_qlen\fR parameter is invalid
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation failed due to resource limitations
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Invalid parameter. The number of entries on the event queue of the Event
Dispatcher exceeds the requested event queue length.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
This operation is useful when the potential number of events that could be
placed on the event queue changes dynamically.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
