'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_GET_CONSUMER_CONTEXT 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_get_consumer_context \- get Consumer context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_get_consumer_context (
    IN    DAT_HANDLE    \fIdat_handle\fR,
    OUT   DAT_CONTEXT   *\fIcontext\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdat_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for a DAT Object associated with \fIcontext\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcontext\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Pointer to Consumer-allocated storage where the current value of the
\fIdat_handle\fR context will be stored.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_get_consumer_context()\fR function gets the Consumer context from
the specified \fIdat_handle\fR. The \fIdat_handle\fR can be one of the
following handle types: \fBDAT_IA_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_EP_HANDLE\fR,
\fBDAT_EVD_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_CR_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_RSP_HANDLE\fR,
\fBDAT_PSP_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_PZ_HANDLE\fR, \fBDAT_LMR_HANDLE\fR,
\fBDAT_RMR_HANDLE\fR, or \fBDAT_CNO_HANDLE\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful. The Consumer context was successfully retrieved
from the specified handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIdat_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_set_consumer_context\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
