'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EP_CREATE_WITH_SRQ 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_create_with_srq \- create an instance of End Point with Shared Receive
Queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_create_with_srq (
        IN      DAT_IA_HANDLE       ia_handle,
        IN      DAT_PZ_HANDLE       pz_handle,
        IN      DAT_EVD_HANDLE      recv_evd_handle,
        IN      DAT_EVD_HANDLE      request_evd_handle,
        IN      DAT_EVD_HANDLE      connect_evd_handle,
        IN      DAT_SRQ_HANDLE      srq_handle,
        IN      DAT_EP_ATTR         *ep_attributes,
        OUT     DAT_EP_HANDLE       *ep_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIia_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for an open instance of the IA to which the created Endpoint belongs.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpz_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for an instance of the Protection Zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrecv_evd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for the Event Dispatcher where events for completions of incoming
(receive) DTOs are reported. \fBDAT_HANDLE_NULL\fR specifies that the Consumer
is not interested in events for completions of receives.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrequest_evd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for the Event Dispatcher where events for completions of outgoing (Send,
RDMA Write, RDMA Read, and RMR Bind) DTOs are reported.  \fBDAT_HANDLE_NULL\fR
specifies that the Consumer is not interested in events for completions of
requests.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIconnect_evd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for the Event Dispatcher where Connection events are reported.
\fBDAT_HANDLE_NULL\fR specifies that the Consumer is not interested in
connection events for now.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsrq_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for an instance of the Shared Receive Queue.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_attributes\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Pointer to a structure that contains Consumer-requested Endpoint attributes.
Cannot be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Handle for the created instance of an Endpoint.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_ep_create_with_srq()\fR function creates an instance of an Endpoint
that is using SRQ for Recv buffers is provided to the Consumer as
\fIep_handle\fR. The value of \fIep_handle\fR is not defined if the
\fBDAT_RETURN\fR is not \fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR.
.sp
.LP
The Endpoint is created in the Unconnected state.
.sp
.LP
Protection Zone \fIpz_handle\fR allows Consumers to control what local memory
the Endpoint can access for DTOs except Recv and what memory remote RDMA
operations can access over the connection of a created Endpoint. Only memory
referred to by LMRs and RMRs that match the Endpoint Protection Zone can be
accessed by the Endpoint. The Recv DTO buffers PZ must match the SRQ PZ. The
SRQ PZ might or might not be the same as the EP one. Check Provider attribute
for the support of different PZs between SRQ and its EPs.
.sp
.LP
The \fIrecv_evd_handle\fR and \fIrequest_evd_handle\fR arguments are Event
Dispatcher instances where the Consumer collects completion notifications of
DTOs. Completions of Receive DTOs are reported in \fIrecv_evd_handle\fR Event
Dispatcher, and completions of Send, RDMA Read, and RDMA Write DTOs are
reported in \fIrequest_evd_handle\fR Event Dispatcher. All completion
notifications of RMR bindings are reported to a Consumer in
\fIrequest_evd_handle\fR Event Dispatcher.
.sp
.LP
All Connection events for the connected Endpoint are reported to the Consumer
through \fIconnect_evd_handle\fR Event Dispatcher.
.sp
.LP
Shared Receive Queue \fIsrq_handle\fR specifies where the EP will dequeue Recv
DTO buffers.
.sp
.LP
The created EP can be reset. The relationship between SRQ and EP is not
effected by \fBdat_ep_reset\fR(3DAT).
.sp
.LP
SRQ can not be disassociated or replaced from created EP. The only way to
disassociate SRQ from EP is to destroy EP.
.sp
.LP
Receive buffers cannot be posted to the created Endpoint. Receive buffers must
be posted to the SRQ to be used for the created Endpoint.
.sp
.LP
The ep_attributes parameter specifies the initial attributes of the created
Endpoint. Consumer can not specify \fINULL\fR for \fIep_attributes\fR but can
specify values only for the parameters needed and default for the rest.
.sp
.LP
For \fImax_request_dtos\fR and \fImax_request_iov\fR, the created Endpoint will
have at least the Consumer requested values but might have larger values.
Consumer can query the created Endpoint to find out the actual values for these
attributes. Created Endpoint has the exact Consumer requested values for
\fImax_recv_dtos\fR, \fImax_message_size\fR, \fImax_rdma_size\fR, \fImax_
rdma_read_in\fR, and \fImax_rdma_read_out\fR. For all other attributes, except
\fImax_recv_iov\fR that is ignored, the created Endpoint has the exact values
requested by Consumer. If Provider cannot satisfy the Consumer requested
attribute values the operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Invalid parameter. One of the requested EP parameters or attributes was invalid
or a combination of attributes or parameters is invalid. For example,
\fIpz_handle\fR specified does not match the one for SRQ or the requested
maximum RDMA Read IOV exceeds IA capabilities..
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_MODEL_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The requested Provider Model was not supported.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The Consumer creates an Endpoint prior to the establishment of a connection.
The created Endpoint is in \fBDAT_EP_STATE_UNCONNECTED\fR. Consumers can do the
following:
.RS +4
.TP
1.
Request a connection on the Endpoint through \fBdat_ep_connect\fR(3DAT) or
\fBdat_ep_dup_connect\fR(3DAT) for the active side of the connection model.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
2.
Associate the Endpoint with the Pending Connection Request that does not
have an associated local Endpoint for accepting the Pending Connection Request
for the passive/server side of the con-nection model.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
3.
Create a Reserved Service Point with the Endpoint for the passive/server
side of the connection model. Upon arrival of a Connection Request on the
Service Point, the Consumer accepts the Pending Connection Request that has the
Endpoint associated with it.
.RE
.sp
.LP
The Consumer cannot specify a \fIrequest_evd_handle\fR (\fIrecv_evd_handle\fR)
with Request Completion Flags (Recv Completion Flags) that do not match the
other Endpoint Completion Flags for the DTO/RMR completion streams that use the
same EVD. If \fIrequest_evd_handle\fR (\fIrecv_evd_ handle\fR) is used for
request (recv) completions of an Endpoint whose associated Request (Recv)
Completion Flag attribute is \fBDAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG\fR, the Request
Completion Flags and Recv Completion Flags for all Endpoint completion streams
that use the EVD must specify the same. By definition, completions of all Recv
DTO posted to SRQ complete with Signal. Analogously, if \fIrecv_evd_handle\fR
is used for recv completions of an Endpoint whose associated Recv Completion
Flag attribute is \fBDAT_COMPLETION_SOLICITED_WAIT\fR, the Recv Completion
Flags for all Endpoint Recv completion streams that use the same EVD must
specify the same Recv Completion Flags attribute value and the EVD cannot be
used for any other event stream types. If \fIrecv_evd_handle\fR is used for
Recv completions of an Endpoint that uses SRQ and whose Recv Completion Flag
attribute is \fBDAT_COMPLETION_EVD_THRESHOLD\fR then all Endpoint DTO
completion streams (request and/or recv completion streams) that use that
\fIrecv_evd_handle\fR must specify \fBDAT_COMPLETION_EVD_THRESHOLD\fR. Other
event stream types can also use the same EVD.
.sp
.LP
Consumers might want to use \fBDAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG\fR for Request
and/or Recv completions when they control locally with posted DTO/RMR
completion flag (not needed for Recv posted to SRQ) whether posted DTO/RMR
completes with Signal or not. Consumers might want to use
\fBDAT_COMPLETION_SOLICITED_WAIT\fR for Recv completions when the remote sender
side control whether posted Recv competes with Signal or not or not. uDAPL
Consumers might want to use \fBDAT_COMPLETION_EVD_THRESHOLD\fR for Request
and/or Recv completions when they control waiter unblocking with the
\fIthreshold\fR parameter of the \fBdat_evd_wait\fR(3DAT).
.sp
.LP
Some Providers might restrict whether multiple EPs that share a SRQ can have
different Protection Zones. Check the \fIsrq_ep_pz_difference_support\fR
Provider attribute for it.
.sp
.LP
Consumers might want to have a different PZ between EP and SRQ. This allows
incoming RDMA operations to be specific to this EP PZ and not the same for all
EPs that share SRQ. This is critical for servers that supports multiple
independent clients.
.sp
.LP
The Provider is strongly encouraged to create an EP that is ready to be
connected. Any effects of previous connections or connection establishment
attempts on the underlying Transport-specific Endpoint to which the DAT
Endpoint is mapped to should be hidden from the Consumer. The methods described
below are examples:
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Provider does not create an underlying Transport Endpoint until the
Consumer is connecting the Endpoint or accepting a connection request on it.
This allows the Provider to accumulate Consumer requests for attribute settings
even for attributes that the underlying transport does not allow to change
after the Transport Endpoint is created.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Provider creates the underlying Transport Endpoint or chooses one from a
pool of Provider-controlled Transport Endpoints when the Consumer creates the
Endpoint. The Provider chooses the Transport Endpoint that is free from any
underlying internal attributes that might prevent the Endpoint from being
connected. For IB and IP, that means that the Endpoint is not in the TimeWait
state.  Changing of some of the Endpoint attributes becomes hard and might
potentially require mapping the Endpoint to another underlying Transport
Endpoint that might not be feasible for all transports.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
The Provider allocates a Transport-specific Endpoint without worrying about
impact on it from previous connections or connection establishment attempts.
Hide the Transport-specific TimeWait state or CM timeout of the underlying
transport Endpoint within \fBdat_ep_connect\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_ep_dup_connect\fR(3DAT), or \fBdat_cr_accept\fR(3DAT). On the Active
side of the connection establishment, if the remnants of a previous connection
for Transport-specific Endpoint can be hidden within the Timeout parameter, do
so. If not, generating \fBDAT_CONNECTION_ EVENT_NON_PEER_REJECTED\fR is an
option. For the Passive side, generating a
\fBDAT_CONNECTION_COMPLETION_ERROR\fR event locally, while sending a
non-peer-reject message to the active side, is a way of handling it.
.RE
.sp
.LP
Any transitions of an Endpoint into an Unconnected state can be handled
similarly. One transition from a Disconnected to an Unconnected state is a
special case.
.sp
.LP
For \fBdat_ep_reset\fR(3DAT), the Provider can hide any remnants of the
previous connection or failed connection establishment in the operation itself.
Because the operation is synchronous, the Provider can block in it until the
TimeWait state effect of the previous connection or connection setup is
expired, or until the Connection Manager timeout of an unsuccessful connection
establishment attempt is expired. Alternatively, the Provider can create a new
Endpoint for the Consumer that uses the same handle.
.sp
.LP
DAT Providers are required not to change any Consumer-specified Endpoint
attributes during connection establishment. If the Consumer does not specify an
attribute, the Provider can set it to its own default.  Some EP attributes,
like outstanding RDMA Read incoming or outgoing, if not set up by the Consumer,
can be changed by Providers to establish connection. It is recommended that the
Provider pick the default for outstanding RDMA Read attributes as 0 if the
Consumer has not specified them. This ensures that connection establishment
does not fail due to insufficient outstanding RDMA Read resources, which is a
requirement for the Provider.
.sp
.LP
The Provider is not required to check for a mismatch between the maximum RDMA
Read IOV and maximum RDMA Read outgoing attributes, but is allowed to do so. In
the later case it is allowed to return \fBDAT_INVALID_ PARAMETER\fR when a
mismatch is detected. Provider must allocate resources to satisfy the
combination of these two EP attributes for local RDMA Read DTOs.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_ep_create\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_create\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_free\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_query\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
