'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH dat_pz_free 3DAT "16 Jul 2004" "SunOS 5.11" "Direct Access Transport Library Functions"
.SH NAME
dat_pz_free \- destroy an instance of the Protection Zone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ] 
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_pz_free (
    IN    DAT_PZ_HANDLE    pz_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fIpz_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
.rt  
Handle for an instance of Protection Zone to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_pz_free()\fR function destroys an instance of the Protection Zone.
The Protection Zone cannot be destroyed if it is in use by an Endpoint, LMR, or
RMR.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Protection Zone in any subsequent operation
except for \fBdat_pz_free()\fR fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
Parameter in an invalid state. The Protection Zone was in use by Endpoint, LMR,
or RMR instances.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
.rt  
The \fIpz_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityStandard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-LevelUnsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
