'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EVD_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_evd_free \- destroy an instance of the Event Dispatcher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_evd_free (
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE    \fIevd_handle\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of the Event Dispatcher.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_evd_free()\fR function destroys a specified instance of the Event
Dispatcher.
.sp
.LP
All events on the queue of the specified Event Dispatcher are lost. The
destruction of the Event Dispatcher instance does not have any effect on any
DAT Objects that originated an Event Stream that had fed events to the Event
Dispatcher instance. There should be no event streams feeding the Event
Dispatcher and no threads blocked on the Event Dispatcher when the EVD is being
closed as at the time when it was created.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Event Dispatcher in any consequent operation
fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIevd_handle\fR parameter is invalid
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Invalid parameter. There are Event Streams associated with the Event Dispatcher
feeding it.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
Consumers are advised to destroy all Objects that originate Event Streams that
feed an instance of the Event Dispatcher before destroying it. An exception to
this rule is Event Dispatchers of an IA.
.sp
.LP
Freeing an IA automatically destroys all Objects associated with it directly
and indirectly, including Event Dispatchers.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
