'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_RMR_CREATE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_create \- create an RMR for the specified Protection Zone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_create(
    IN    DAT_PZ_HANDLE     pz_handle,
    OUT   DAT_RMR_HANDLE    *rmr_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpz_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of the Protection Zone.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for the created instance of an RMR.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_create()\fR function creates an RMR for the specified Protection
Zone. This operation is relatively heavy. The created RMR can be bound to a
memory region within the LMR through a lightweight \fBdat_rmr_bind\fR(3DAT)
operation that generates \fIrmr_context\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the operation fails (does not return \fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR), the return values
of \fIrmr_handle\fR are undefined and Consumers should not use them.
.sp
.LP
The \fIpz_handle\fR parameter provide Consumers a way to restrict access to an
RMR by authorized connection only.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The \fIpz_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_rmr_bind\fR(3DAT) , \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
