'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EVD_CLEAR_UNWAITABLE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_evd_clear_unwaitable \- transition the Event Dispatcher into a waitable
state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_evd_clear_unwaitable(
    IN    DAT_EVD_HANDLE    \fIevd_handle\fR
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIevd_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of Event Dispatcher.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_evd_clear_unwaitable()\fR transitions the Event Dispatcher into a
waitable state. In this state, calls to \fBdat_evd_wait\fR(3DAT) are permitted
on the EVD. The actual state of the Event Dispatcher is accessible through
\fBdat_evd_query\fR(3DAT) and is \fBDAT_EVD_WAITABLE\fR after the return of
this operation.
.sp
.LP
This call does not affect a CNO associated with this EVD at all. Events
arriving on the EVD after it is set waitable still trigger the CNO (if
appropriate), and can be retrieved with \fBdat_evd_dequeue\fR(3DAT).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIevd_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_evd_dequeue\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_evd_query\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_evd_set_unwaitable\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_evd_wait\fR(3DAT),
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
