'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_RMR_QUERY 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_query \- provide RMR parameters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_query (
    IN    DAT_RMR_HANDLE        rmr_handle,
    IN    DAT_RMR_PARAM_MASK    rmr_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_RMR_PARAM         *rmr_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Handle for an instance of the RMR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_param_mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Mask for RMR parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_param\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills with RMR
parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_query()\fR function provides RMR parameters to the Consumer. The
Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer-allocated structures for RMR
parameters that the Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The \fIrmr_param_mask\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters
to query. The Provider returns values for \fIrmr_param_mask\fR requested
parameters. The Provider can return values for any other parameters.
.sp
.LP
Not all parameters can have a value at all times. For example,
\fIlmr_handle\fR, \fItarget_address\fR, \fIsegment_length\fR,
\fImem_privileges\fR, and \fIrmr_context\fR are not defined for an unbound RMR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIrmr_param_mask\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fImr_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
