'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_EP_SET_WATERMARK 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_ep_set_watermark \- set high watermark on Endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_ep_set_watermark (
    IN      DAT_EP_HANDLE      ep_handle,
    IN      DAT_COUNT          soft_high_watermark,
    IN      DAT_COUNT          hard_high_watermark
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The handle for an instance of an Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsoft_high_watermark\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The soft high watermark for the number of Recv buffers consumed by the
Endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIhard_high_watermark\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 23n
The hard high watermark for the number of Recv buffers consumed by the
Endpoint.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_ep_set_watermark()\fR function sets the soft and hard high watermark
values for EP and arms EP for generating asynchronous events for high
watermarks. An asynchronous event will be generated for IA \fIasync_evd\fR when
the number of Recv buffers at EP exceeds the soft high watermark for the first
time. A connection broken event will be generated for EP \fIconnect_evd\fR when
the number of Recv buffers at EP exceeds the hard high watermark. These can
occur during this call or when EP takes a buffer from the SRQ or EP RQ. The
soft and hard high watermark asynchronous event generation and setting are
independent of each other.
.sp
.LP
The asynchronous event for a soft high watermark is generated only once per
setting. Once an event is generated, no new asynchronous events for the soft
high watermark is generated until the EP is again set for the soft high
watermark. If the Consumer is once again interested in the event, the Consumer
should again set the soft high watermark.
.sp
.LP
If the Consumer is not interested in a soft or hard high watermark, the value
of \fBDAT_WATERMARK_INFINITE\fR can be specified for the case that is the
default value. This value specifies that a non-asynchronous event will be
generated for a high watermark EP attribute for which this value is set. It
does not prevent generation of a connection broken event for EP when no Recv
buffer is available for a message arrived on the EP connection.
.sp
.LP
The operation is supported for all states of Endpoint.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The \fIep_handle\fR argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
One of the parameters is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_MODEL_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 27n
The requested Model was not supported by the Provider. The Provider does not
support EP Soft or Hard High Watermarks.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
For a hard high watermark, the Provider is ready to generate a connection
broken event as soon as the connection is established.
.sp
.LP
If the asynchronous event for a soft or hard high watermark has not yet been
generated, this call simply modifies the values for these attributes. The
Provider remains armed for generation of these asynchronous events.
.sp
.LP
Regardless of whether an asynchronous event for the soft and hard high
watermark has been generated, this operation will set the generation of an
asynchronous event with the Consumer-provided high watermark values. If the new
high watermark values are below the current number of Receive DTOs at EP, an
asynchronous event will be generated immediately. Otherwise the old soft or
hard (or both) high watermark values are simply replaced with the new ones.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_ep_create\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_ep_recv_query\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_create\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_free\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_post_recv\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_query\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_resize\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_set_lw\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
