'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_REGISTRY_LIST_PROVIDERS 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_registry_list_providers \- obtain a list of available pProviders from the
Static Registry
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
typedef struct dat_provider_info {
    char ia_name[DAT_NAME_MAX_LENGTH];
    DAT_UINT32      dapl_version_major;
    DAT_UINT32      dapl_version_minor;
    DAT_BOOLEAN     is_thread_safe;
    } DAT_PROVIDER_INFO;

cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_registry_list_providers (
    IN    DAT_COUNT          max_to_return,
    OUT   DAT_COUNT          *number_entries,
    OUT   DAT_PROVIDER_INFO  *(dat_provider_list[])
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImax_to_return\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Maximum number of entries that can be returned to the Consumer in the
\fIdat_provider_list\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInumber_entries\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
The actual number of entries returned to the Consumer in the
\fIdat_provider_list\fR if successful or the number of Providers available.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIdat_provider_list\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
Points to an array of \fBDAT_PROVIDER_INFO\fR pointers supplied by the
Consumer. Each Provider's information will be copied to the destination
specified.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_registry_list_providers()\fR function allows the Consumer to obtain
a list of available Providers from the Static Registry. The information
provided is the Interface Adapter name, the uDAPL/kDAPL API version supported,
and whether the provided version is thread-safe. The Consumer can examine the
attributes to determine which (if any) Interface Adapters it wants to open.
This operation has no effect on the Registry itself.
.sp
.LP
The Registry can open an IA using a Provider whose \fIdapl_version_minor\fR is
larger than the one the Consumer requests if no Provider entry matches exactly.
Therefore, Consumers should expect that an IA can be opened successfully as
long as at least one Provider entry returned by
\fBdat_registry_list_providers()\fR matches the \fIia_name\fR,
\fIdapl_version_major\fR, and \fIis_thread_safe\fR fields exactly, and has a
\fIdapl_version_minor\fR that is equal to or greater than the version
requested.
.sp
.LP
If the operation is successful, the returned value is \fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR and
\fInumber_entries\fR indicates the number of entries filled by the registry in
\fIdat_provider_list\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the operation is not successful, then \fInumber_entries\fR returns the
number of entries in the registry. Consumers can use this return to allocate
\fIdat_provider_list\fR large enough for the registry entries. This number is
just a snapshot at the time of the call and may be changed by the time of the
next call. If the operation is not successful, then the content of
\fIdat_provider_list\fR is not defined.
.sp
.LP
If \fIdat_provider_list\fR is too small, including pointing to \fINULL\fR for
the registry entries, then the operation fails with the return
\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Invalid parameter. For example, \fIdat_provider_list\fR is too small or
\fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INTERNAL_ERROR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Internal error. The DAT static registry is missing.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
\fBDAT_NAME_MAX_LENGTH\fR includes the null character for string termination.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
