'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_PSP_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_psp_free \- destroy an instance of the Public Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_psp_free (
    IN    DAT_PSP_HANDLE    psp_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpsp_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
Handle for an instance of the Public Service Point.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_psp_free()\fR function destroys a specified instance of the Public
Service Point.
.sp
.LP
Any incoming Connection Requests for the Connection Qualifier on the destroyed
Service Point it had been listening on are automatically rejected by the
Provider with the return analogous to the no listening Service Point.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of the Connection Requests in progress is undefined and left to an
implementation. But it must be consistent. This means that either a Connection
Requested Event has been generated for the Event Dispatcher associated with the
Service Point, including the creation of the Connection Request instance, or
the Connection Request is rejected by the Provider without any local
notification.
.sp
.LP
This operation shall have no effect on previously generated Connection
Requested Events. This includes Connection Request instances and, potentially,
Endpoint instances created by the Provider.
.sp
.LP
The behavior of this operation with creation of a Service Point on the same
Connection Qualifier at the same time is not defined. Consumers are advised to
avoid this scenario.
.sp
.LP
Use of the handle of the destroyed Public Service Point in any consequent
operation fails.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIpsp_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
