'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_PSP_QUERY 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_psp_query \- provide parameters of the Public Service Point
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_psp_query (
    IN    DAT_PSP_HANDLE        psp_handle,
    IN    DAT_PSP_PARAM_MASK    psp_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_PSP_PARAM         *psp_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpsp_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Handle for an instance of Public Service Point.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpsp_param_mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Mask for PSP parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIpsp_param\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 18n
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that Provider fills for
Consumer-requested parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_psp_query()\fR function provides to the Consumer parameters of the
Public Service Point. Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer allocated
structures for PSP parameters that Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The \fIpsp_param_mask\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters
they would like to query. The Provider will return values for
\fIpsp_param_mask\fR requested parameters. The Provider may return the value
for any of the other parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIpsp_handle\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIpsp_param_mask\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
