'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_SRQ_FREE 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_srq_free \- destroy an instance of the shared receive queue
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_srq_free (
    IN      DAT_SRQ_HANDLE      srq_handle
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIsrq_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 14n
A handle for an instance of SRQ to be destroyed.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_srq_free()\fR function destroys an instance of the SRQ. The SRQ
cannot be destroyed if it is in use by an EP.
.sp
.LP
It is illegal to use the destroyed handle in any consequent operation.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The \fIsrq_handle\fR argument is an invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SRQ_IN_USE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
The Shared Receive Queue can not be destroyed because it is in still associated
with an EP instance.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
If the Provider detects the use of a deleted object handle, it should return
\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR. The Provider should avoid assigning the used handle
as long as possible. Once reassigned the handle is no longer a handle of a
destroyed object.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBdat_srq_create\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_post_recv\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_query\fR(3DAT), \fBdat_srq_resize\fR(3DAT),
\fBdat_srq_set_lw\fR(3DAT), \fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
