'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_RMR_BIND 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_rmr_bind \- bind the RMR to the specified memory region within an LMR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_rmr_bind(
    IN    DAT_RMR_HANDLE        rmr_handle,
    IN    DAT_LMR_TRIPLET       *lmr_triplet,
    IN    DAT_MEM_PRIV_FLAGS    mem_privileges,
    IN    DAT_EP_HANDLE         ep_handle,
    IN    DAT_RMR_COOKIE        user_cookie,
    IN    DAT_COMPLETION_FLAGS  completion_flags,
    OUT   DAT_RMR_CONTEXT       *rmr_context
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Handle for an RMR instance.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIlmr_triplet\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
A pointer to an \fIlmr_triplet\fR that defines the memory region of the LMR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImem_privileges\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Consumer-requested memory access privileges for the registered remote memory
region. The Default value is \fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_NONE_FLAG\fR. The constant value
\fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_ALL_FLAG\fR = 0x33, which specifies both Read and Write
privileges, is also defined. Memory privilege definitions are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBRemote Read\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
\fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_REMOTE_READ_FLAG\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB0x02\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Remote read access requested.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBRemote Write\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
\fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_REMOTE_WRITE_FLAG\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB0x20\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Remote write access requested.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIep_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Endpoint to which \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR is posted.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIuser_cookie\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
User-provided cookie that is returned to a Consumer at the completion of the
\fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR. Can be \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcompletion_flags\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
Flags for RMR Bind. The default \fBDAT_COMPLETION_DEFAULT_FLAG\fR is 0. Flag
definitions are as follows:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBCompletion Suppression\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
\fBDAT_COMPLETION_SUPPRESS_FLAG\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB0x01\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Suppress successful Completion.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBNotification of Completion\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
\fB\fR\fBDAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB0x04\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Non-notification completion. Local Endpoint must be configured for Notification
Suppression.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fBBarrier Fence\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
\fB\fR\fBDAT_COMPLETION_BARRIER_FENCE_FLAG\fR
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB0x08\fR
.ad
.RS 8n
Request for Barrier Fence.
.RE

.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIrmr_context\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 20n
New \fIrmr_context\fR for the bound RMR suitable to be shared with a remote
host.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR function binds the RMR to the specified memory region
within an LMR and provides the new \fIrmr_context\fR value. The
\fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR operation is a lightweight asynchronous operation that
generates a new \fIrmr_context\fR. The Consumer is notified of the completion
of this operation through a \fIrmr_bind\fR Completion event on the
\fIrequest_evd_handle\fR of the specified Endpoint \fIep_handle\fR.
.sp
.LP
The return value of \fIrmr_context\fR can be transferred by local Consumer to a
Consumer on a remote host to be used for an RDMA DTO. The use of
\fIrmr_context\fR by a remote host for an RDMA DTO prior to the completion of
the \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR can result in an error and a broken connection. The
local Consumer can ensure that the remote Consumer does not have
\fIrmr_context\fR before \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR is completed. One way is to
"wait" for the completion \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR on the \fIrmr_bind\fR Event
Dispatcher of the specified Endpoint \fIep_handle\fR. Another way is to send
\fIrmr_context\fR in a Send DTO over the connection of the Endpoint
\fIep_handle\fR. The barrier-fencing behavior of the \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR with
respect to Send and RDMA DTOs ensures that a Send DTO does not start until
\fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR completed.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR function automatically fences all Send, RDMA Read, and
RDMA Write DTOs and \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR operations submitted on the Endpoint
\fIep_handle\fR after the \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR. Therefore, none of these
operations starts until \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR is completed.
.sp
.LP
If the RMR Bind fails after \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR returns, connection of
\fIep_handle\fR is broken. The Endpoint transitions into a
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR state and the \fBDAT_CONNECTION_EVENT_BROKEN\fR
event is delivered to the \fIconnect_evd_handle\fR of the Endpoint.
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR function employs fencing to ensure that operations
sending the RMR Context on the same Endpoint as the bind specified cannot
result in an error from the peer side using the delivered RMR Context too soon.
One method, used by InfiniBand, is to ensure that none of these operations
start on the Endpoint until after the bind is completed. Other transports can
employ different methods to achieve the same goal.
.sp
.LP
Any RDMA DTO that uses the previous value of \fIrmr_context\fR after the
\fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR is completed fail and report a protection violation.
.sp
.LP
By default, \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR generates notification completions.
.sp
.LP
The \fImem_privileges\fR parameter allows Consumers to restrict the type of
remote accesses to the registered RMR by RDMA DTOs. Providers whose underlying
Transports require that privileges of the requested RMR and the associated LMR
match, that is
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Set RMR's \fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_REMOTE_READ_FLAG\fR  requires that LMR's
\fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_LOCAL_READ_FLAG\fR is also set,
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Set RMR's \fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_REMOTE_WRITE_FLAG\fR requires that LMR's
\fBDAT_MEM_PRIV_LOCAL_WRITE_FLAG\fR is also set,
.RE
.sp
.LP
or the operation fails and returns \fBDAT_PRIVILEGES_VIOLATION\fR.
.sp
.LP
In the \fIlmr_triplet\fR, the value of \fIlength\fR of zero means that the
Consumer does not want to associate an RMR with any memory region within the
LMR and the return value of \fIrmr_context\fR for that case is undefined.
.sp
.LP
The completion of the posted RMR Bind is reported to the Consumer
asynchronously through a DTO Completion event based on the specified
\fIcompletion_flags\fR value. The value of
\fBDAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG\fR is only valid if the Endpoint Request
Completion Flags \fBDAT_COMPLETION_UNSIGNALLED_FLAG\fR. Otherwise,
\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR is returned.
.sp
.LP
The \fIuser_cookie\fR parameter allows Consumers to have unique identifiers for
each \fBdat_rmr_bind()\fR. These identifiers are completely under user control
and are opaque to the Provider. The Consumer is not required to ensure the
uniqueness of the \fIuser_cookie\fR value. The \fIuser_cookie\fR is returned to
the Consumer in the \fIrmr_bind\fR Completion event for this operation.
.sp
.LP
The operation is valid for the Endpoint in the \fBDAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED\fR and
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR states. If the operation returns successfully
for the Endpoint in \fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR state, the posted RMR Bind
is immediately flushed to \fIrequest_evd_handle\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation was successful.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INSUFFICIENT_RESOURCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The operation failed due to resource limitations.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Invalid parameter. For example, the \fItarget_address\fR or
\fIsegment_length\fR exceeded the limits of the existing LMR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Invalid DAT handle.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_STATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Parameter in an invalid state. Endpoint was not in the a
\fBDAT_EP_STATE_CONNECTED\fR or \fBDAT_EP_STATE_DISCONNECTED\fR state.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_MODEL_NOT_SUPPORTED\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
The requested Model was not supported by the Provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_PRIVILEGES_VIOLATION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Privileges violation for local or remote memory access.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_PROTECTION_VIOLATION\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 30n
Protection violation for local or remote memory access.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
