'\" te
.\" This manual page is derived from the DAT/uDAPL 1.2 specification.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DAT_CR_QUERY 3DAT "Jul 16, 2004"
.SH NAME
dat_cr_query \- provide parameters of the Connection Request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-ldat\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <\fBdat/udat.h\fR>

DAT_RETURN
    dat_cr_query (
    IN    DAT_CR_HANDLE        cr_handle,
    IN    DAT_CR_PARAM_MASK    cr_param_mask,
    OUT   DAT_CR_PARAM         *cr_param
    )
.fi

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcr_handle\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Handle for an instance of a Connection Request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcr_param_mask\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Mask for Connection Request parameters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIcr_param\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
Pointer to a Consumer-allocated structure that the Provider fills for
Consumer-requested parameters.
.RE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdat_cr_query()\fR function provides to the Consumer parameters of the
Connection Request. The Consumer passes in a pointer to the Consumer-allocated
structures for Connection Request parameters that the Provider fills.
.sp
.LP
The \fIcr_param_mask\fR parameter allows Consumers to specify which parameters
to query. The Provider returns values for \fIcr_param_mask\fR requested
parameters. The Provider can return values for any other parameters.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_SUCCESS\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The operation was successful
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_HANDLE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIcr_handle\fR handle is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBDAT_INVALID_PARAMETER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
The \fIcr_param_mask\fR parameter is invalid.
.RE

.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The Consumer uses \fBdat_cr_query()\fR to get information about requesting a
remote Endpoint as well as a local Endpoint if it was allocated by the Provider
for the arrived Connection Request. The local Endpoint is created if the
Consumer used PSP with \fBDAT_PSP_PROVIDER\fR as the value for \fIpsp_flags\fR.
For the remote Endpoint, \fBdat_cr_query()\fR  provides \fIremote_ia_address\fR
and \fIremote_port_qual\fR. It also provides remote \fIpeer private_data\fR and
its size.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Standard: uDAPL, 1.1, 1.2
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibdat\fR(3LIB), \fBattributes\fR(5)
