'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH vz_pow_ 3MVEC "14 Dec 2007" "SunOS 5.11" "Vector Math Library Functions"
.SH NAME
vz_pow_, vc_pow_ \- vector complex power functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lmvec\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]

\fBvoid\fR \fBvz_pow_\fR(\fBint *\fR\fIn\fR, \fBdouble complex * restrict\fR \fIz\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIstridez\fR, \fBdouble complex * restrict\fR \fIw\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIstridew\fR,
     \fBdouble complex * restrict\fR \fIu\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIstrideu\fR,
     \fBdouble *\fR \fItmp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBvc_pow_\fR(\fBint *\fR\fIn\fR, \fBfloat complex * restrict\fR \fIz\fR,
     \fBint *\fR\fIstridez\fR, \fBfloat complex * restrict\fR \fIw\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIstridew\fR,
     \fBfloat complex * restrict\fR \fIu\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIstrideu\fR,
     \fBfloat *\fR \fItmp\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These functions evaluate the complex function \fIz\fR^\fIw\fR for an entire
vector of values at once. The first parameter specifies the number of values to
compute. Subsequent parameters specify the argument and result vectors. Each
vector is described by a pointer to the first element and a stride, which is
the increment between successive elements. The last argument is a pointer to
scratch storage; this storage must be large enough to hold 3 * *\fIn\fR
consecutive values of the real type corresponding to the complex type of the
argument and result.
.sp
.LP
Specifically, \fBvz_pow_\fR(\fIn\fR, \fIz\fR, \fIsz\fR, \fIw\fR, \fIsw\fR,
\fIu\fR, \fIsu\fR, \fItmp\fR) computes \fIu\fR[\fIi\fR * *\fIsu\fR] =
(\fIz\fR[\fIi\fR * *\fIsz\fR])^(\fIw\fR[\fIi\fR * *\fIsw\fR]) for each \fIi\fR
= 0, 1, ..., *\fIn\fR - 1. The \fBvc_pow_()\fR function performs the same
computation for single precision data.
.sp
.LP
These functions are not guaranteed to deliver results that are identical to the
results of the \fBcpow\fR(3M) functions given the same arguments.
.SH USAGE
.sp
.LP
The element count *\fIn\fR must be greater than zero. The strides for the
argument and result arrays can be arbitrary integers, but the arrays themselves
must not be the same or overlap. A zero stride effectively collapses an entire
vector into a single element. A negative stride causes a vector to be accessed
in descending memory order, but note that the corresponding pointer must still
point to the first element of the vector to be used; if the stride is negative,
this will be the highest-addressed element in memory. This convention differs
from the Level 1 BLAS, in which array parameters always refer to the
lowest-addressed element in memory even when negative increments are used.
.sp
.LP
These functions assume that the default round-to-nearest rounding direction
mode is in effect. On x86, these functions also assume that the default
round-to-64-bit rounding precision mode is in effect. The result of calling a
vector function with a non-default rounding mode in effect is undefined.
.sp
.LP
Unlike the c99 \fBcpow\fR(3M) functions, the vector complex exponential
functions make no attempt to handle special cases and exceptions; they simply
use textbook formulas to compute a complex exponential in terms of real
elementary functions. As a result, these functions can raise different
exceptions and/or deliver different results from \fBcpow()\fR.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
tab() box;
cw(2.75i) |cw(2.75i) 
lw(2.75i) |lw(2.75i) 
.
ATTRIBUTE TYPEATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface StabilityCommitted
_
MT-LevelMT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBcpow\fR(3M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
