'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 1996, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH DIAL 3NSL "Dec 30, 1996"
.SH NAME
dial, undial \- establish an outgoing terminal line connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR... ]
#include <dial.h>

\fBint\fR \fBdial\fR(\fBCALL\fR \fIcall\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBundial\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBdial()\fR function returns a file-descriptor for a terminal line open
for read/write. The argument to \fBdial()\fR is a \fBCALL\fR structure (defined
in the header <\fBdial.h\fR>).
.sp
.LP
When finished with the terminal line, the calling program must  invoke
\fBundial()\fR to release the semaphore that has been set during the allocation
of the terminal device.
.sp
.LP
\fBCALL\fR is defined in the header <\fBdial.h\fR> and has the following
members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct termio *attr;	  /* pointer to termio attribute struct */
int           baud;	   /* transmission data rate */
int           speed;	   /* 212A modem: low=300, high=1200 */
char          *line;	   /* device name for out-going line */
char          *telno;	 /* pointer to tel-no digits string */
int           modem;	   /* specify modem control for direct lines */
char          *device;	/* unused */
int           dev_len;	/* unused */
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fBCALL\fR element \fBspeed\fR is intended only for use with an outgoing
dialed call, in which case its value should be the desired transmission baud
rate.  The \fBCALL\fR element \fBbaud\fR is no longer used.
.sp
.LP
If the desired terminal line is a direct line, a string pointer to its
device-name should be placed in the \fBline\fR element in the \fBCALL\fR
structure. Legal values for such terminal device names are kept in the
\fBDevices\fR file. In this case, the value of the \fBbaud\fR element should be
set to -1. This value will cause \fBdial\fR to determine the correct value from
the \fB<Devices>\fR file.
.sp
.LP
The \fBtelno\fR element is for a pointer to a character string representing the
telephone number to be dialed. Such numbers may consist only of these
characters:
.sp

.sp
.TS
l l
l l .
0-9	dial 0-9
*	dail  *
#	dail  #
=	wait for secondary dial tone
-	delay for approximately 4 seconds
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBCALL\fR element \fBmodem\fR is used to specify modem control for direct
lines. This element should be non-zero if modem control is required. The
\fBCALL\fR element \fBattr\fR is a pointer to a \fBtermio\fR structure, as
defined in the header \fB<termio.h>\fR\&. A \fINULL\fR value for this pointer
element may be passed to the \fBdial\fR function, but if such a structure is
included, the elements specified in it will be set for the outgoing terminal
line before the connection is established. This setting is often important for
certain attributes such as parity and baud-rate.
.sp
.LP
The \fBCALL\fR elements \fBdevice\fR and \fBdev_len\fR are no longer used. They
are retained in the \fBCALL\fR structure for compatibility reasons.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On failure, a negative value indicating the reason for the failure will be
returned. Mnemonics for these negative indices as listed here are defined in
the header <\fBdial.h\fR>.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
INTRPT  \(mi1        /* interrupt occurred */
D_HUNG  \(mi2        /* dialer hung (no return from write) */
NO_ANS  \(mi3        /* no answer within 10 seconds */
ILL_BD  \(mi4        /* illegal baud-rate */
A_PROB  \(mi5        /* acu problem (open(\|) failure) */
L_PROB  \(mi6        /* line problem (open(\|) failure) */
NO_Ldv  \(mi7        /* can't open Devices file */
DV_NT_A \(mi8        /* requested device not available */
DV_NT_K \(mi9        /* requested device not known */
NO_BD_A \(mi10       /* no device available at requested baud */
NO_BD_K \(mi11       /* no device known at requested baud */
DV_NT_E \(mi12       /* requested speed does not match */
BAD_SYS \(mi13       /* system not in Systems file*/
.fi
.in -2

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/Devices\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/uucp/Systems\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/var/spool/uucp/LCK..\fR\fItty-device\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBuucp\fR(1C), \fBalarm\fR(2), \fBread\fR(2), \fBwrite\fR(2),
\fBattributes\fR(5), \fBtermio\fR(7I)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
Including the header <\fBdial.h\fR> automatically includes the header
\fB<termio.h>\fR\&. An \fBalarm\fR(2) system call for 3600 seconds is made (and
caught) within the \fBdial\fR module for the purpose of ``touching'' the
\fBLCK..\fR file and constitutes the device allocation semaphore for the
terminal device. Otherwise, \fBuucp\fR(1C) may simply delete the \fBLCK..\fR
entry on its 90-minute clean-up rounds. The alarm may go off while the user
program is in a \fBread\fR(2) or \fBwrite\fR(2) function, causing an apparent
error return. If the user program expects to be around for an hour or more,
error returns from \fBread()\fRs should be checked for \fB(errno==EINTR)\fR,
and the \fBread()\fR possibly reissued.
.sp
.LP
This interface is unsafe in multithreaded applications.  Unsafe interfaces
should be called only from the main thread.
