'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH NLSPROVIDER 3NSL "Nov 14, 2002"
.SH NAME
nlsprovider \- get name of transport provider
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBchar *\fR\fBnlsprovider\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBnlsprovider()\fR returns a pointer to a null-terminated character string
which contains the name of the transport provider as placed in the environment
by the listener process.  If the variable is not defined in the environment, a
NULL pointer is returned.
.sp
.LP
The environment variable is only available to server processes started by the
listener process.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the variable is not defined in the environment, a NULL pointer is returned.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/usr/lib/libnls.so.1\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 24n
shared object
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Unsafe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBnlsadmin\fR(1M), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
This interface is unsafe in multithreaded applications.  Unsafe interfaces
should be called only from the main thread.
