'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_SVC_CREATE 3NSL "Dec 27, 2013"
.SH NAME
rpc_svc_create, svc_control, svc_create, svc_destroy, svc_dg_create,
svc_fd_create, svc_raw_create, svc_tli_create, svc_tp_create, svc_vc_create,
svc_door_create \- server handle creation routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpc.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBsvc_control\fR(\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fIsvc\fR, \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIreq\fR, \fBvoid *\fR\fIinfo\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsvc_create\fR(\fBconst void (*\fR\fIdispatch\fR)(const struct svc_req *,
     const SVCXPRT *), \fBconst rpcprog_t\fR \fIprognum\fR, \fBconst rpcvers_t\fR \fIversnum\fR,
     \fBconst char *\fR\fInettype\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_destroy\fR(\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_dg_create\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIsendsz\fR,
     \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIrecvsz\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_fd_create\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIsendsz\fR,
     \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIrecvsz\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_raw_create\fR(void)
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_tli_create\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst struct netconfig *\fR\fInetconf\fR,
     \fBconst struct t_bind *\fR\fIbind_addr\fR, \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIsendsz\fR,
     \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIrecvsz\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_tp_create\fR(\fBconst void (*\fR\fIdispatch\fR)
     (const struct svc_req *, const SVCXPRT *), \fBconst rpcprog_t\fR \fIprognum\fR,
     \fBconst rpcvers_t\fR \fIversnum\fR, \fBconst struct netconfig *\fR\fInetconf\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_vc_create\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIfildes\fR, \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIsendsz\fR,
     \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIrecvsz\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fBsvc_door_create\fR(\fBvoid (*\fR\fIdispatch\fR)(struct svc_req *, SVCXPRT *),
     \fBconst rpcprog_t\fR \fIprognum\fR, \fBconst rpcvers_t\fR \fIversnum\fR,
     \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIsendsz\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These routines are part of the \fBRPC\fR library which allows C language
programs to make procedure calls on servers across the network. These routines
deal with the creation of service handles. Once the handle is created, the
server can be invoked by calling \fBsvc_run()\fR.
.SS "Routines"
.sp
.LP
See \fBrpc\fR(3NSL) for the definition of the \fBSVCXPRT\fR data structure.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_control()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
A function to change or retrieve information about a service object. \fIreq\fR
indicates the type of operation and \fIinfo\fR is a pointer to the information.
The supported values of \fIreq\fR,  their argument types, and what they do are:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCGET_VERSQUIET\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
If a request is received for a program number served by this server but the
version number is outside the range registered with the server, an
\fBRPC_PROGVERSMISMATCH\fR error will normally be returned.  \fIinfo\fR should
be a pointer to an integer. Upon successful completion of the
\fBSVCGET_VERSQUIET\fR request,  *\fIinfo\fR contains an integer which
describes the server's current behavior:  \fB0\fR indicates normal server
behavior, that is, an  \fBRPC_PROGVERSMISMATCH\fR error will be returned.
\fB1\fR indicates that the out of range request will be silently ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCSET_VERSQUIET\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
If a request is received for a program number served by this server but the
version number is outside the range registered with the server, an
\fBRPC_PROGVERSMISMATCH\fR error will normally be returned.  It is sometimes
desirable to change this behavior. \fIinfo\fR should be a pointer to an integer
which is either  \fB0\fR, indicating normal server behavior and an
\fBRPC_PROGVERSMISMATCH\fR error will be returned, or  \fB1\fR, indicating that
the out of range request should be silently ignored.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCGET_XID\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Returns the transaction  \fBID\fR of connection\(mioriented and connectionless
transport service calls. The transaction  \fBID\fR assists in uniquely
identifying client requests for a given \fBRPC\fR version, program number,
procedure, and client. The transaction  \fBID\fR is extracted from the service
transport handle  \fIsvc\fR. \fIinfo\fR must be a pointer  to an unsigned long.
Upon successful completion of the  \fBSVCGET_XID\fR request,  *\fIinfo\fR
contains the transaction  \fBID\fR. Note that rendezvous and raw service
handles do not define a transaction  \fBID\fR. Thus, if the service handle is
of rendezvous or raw type, and the request is of type \fBSVCGET_XID,\fR
\fBsvc_control()\fR will return \fBFALSE\fR. Note also that the transaction
\fBID\fR read by the server can be set by the client through the suboption
\fBCLSET_XID\fR in  \fBclnt_control()\fR. See \fBclnt_create\fR(3NSL)
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCSET_RECVERRHANDLER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Attaches or detaches a disconnection handler to the service handle, \fIsvc\fR,
that will be called when a transport error arrives during the reception of a
request or when the server is waiting for a request and the connection shuts
down. This handler is only useful for a connection oriented service handle.
.sp
\fI*info\fR contains the address of the error handler to attach, or \fINULL\fR
to detach a previously defined one. The error handler has two arguments. It has
a pointer to the erroneous service handle. It also has an integer that
indicates if the full service is closed (when equal to zero), or that only one
connection on this service is closed (when not equal to zero).
.sp
.in +2
.nf
void handler (const SVCXPRT *svc, const bool_t isAConnection);
.fi
.in -2

With the service handle address, \fIsvc\fR, the error handler is able to detect
which connection has failed and to begin an error recovery process. The error
handler can be called by multiple threads and should be implemented in an
MT-safe way.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCGET_RECVERRHANDLER\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Upon successful completion of the \fBSVCGET_RECVERRHANDLER\fR request,
\fI*info\fR contains the address of the handler for receiving errors. Upon
failure, \fI*info\fR contains \fINULL\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCSET_CONNMAXREC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Set the maximum record size (in bytes) and enable non-blocking mode for this
service handle. Value can be set and read for both connection and
non-connection oriented transports, but is silently ignored for the
non-connection oriented case. The \fIinfo\fR argument should be a pointer to an
\fBint\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBSVCGET_CONNMAXREC\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 25n
Get the maximum record size for this service handle. Zero means no maximum in
effect and the connection is in blocking mode. The result is not significant
for non-connection oriented transports. The \fIinfo\fR argument should be a
pointer to an \fBint\fR.
.RE

This routine returns TRUE if the operation was successful. Otherwise, it
returns false.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBsvc_create()\fR creates server handles for all the transports belonging to
the class \fInettype\fR.
.sp
\fInettype\fR defines a class of transports which can be used for a particular
application. The transports are tried in left to right order in \fBNETPATH\fR
variable or in top to bottom order in the netconfig database. If \fInettype\fR
is \fINULL,\fR it defaults to \fBnetpath\fR.
.sp
\fBsvc_create()\fR registers itself with the \fBrpcbind\fR service (see
\fBrpcbind\fR(1M)). \fIdispatch\fR is called when there is a remote procedure
call for the given \fIprognum\fR and \fIversnum\fR; this requires calling
\fBsvc_run()\fR (see \fBsvc_run()\fR in \fBrpc_svc_reg\fR(3NSL)). If
\fBsvc_create()\fR succeeds, it returns the number of server handles it
created, otherwise it returns \fB0\fR and an error message is logged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_destroy()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
A function macro that destroys the \fBRPC\fR service handle \fIxprt\fR.
Destruction usually involves deallocation of private data structures, including
\fIxprt\fR itself.  Use of \fIxprt\fR is undefined after calling this routine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_dg_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This routine creates a connectionless \fBRPC\fR service handle, and returns a
pointer to it. This routine returns \fINULL\fR if it fails, and an error
message is logged. \fIsendsz\fR and \fIrecvsz\fR are parameters used to specify
the size of the buffers. If they are \fB0\fR, suitable defaults are chosen. The
file descriptor \fIfildes\fR should be open and bound. The server is not
registered with \fBrpcbind\fR(1M).
.sp
Warning: since connectionless-based \fBRPC\fR messages can only hold limited
amount of encoded data, this transport cannot be used for procedures that take
large arguments or return huge results.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_fd_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This routine creates a service on top of an open and bound file descriptor, and
returns the handle to it. Typically, this descriptor is a connected file
descriptor for a connection-oriented transport. \fIsendsz\fR and \fIrecvsz\fR
indicate sizes for the send and receive buffers. If they are \fB0\fR,
reasonable defaults are chosen. This routine returns \fINULL\fR if it fails,
and an error message is logged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_raw_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This routine creates an \fBRPC\fR service handle and returns a pointer to it.
The transport is really a buffer within the process's address space, so the
corresponding \fBRPC\fR client should live in the same address space; (see
\fBclnt_raw_create()\fR in \fBrpc_clnt_create\fR(3NSL)). This routine allows
simulation of \fBRPC\fR and acquisition of \fBRPC\fR overheads (such as round
trip times), without any kernel and networking interference. This routine
returns \fINULL\fR if it fails, and an error message is logged.
.sp
Note: \fBsvc_run()\fR should not be called when the raw interface is being
used.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_tli_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This routine creates an \fBRPC\fR server handle, and returns a pointer to it.
\fIfildes\fR is the file descriptor on which the service is listening.  If
\fIfildes\fR is \fBRPC_ANYFD\fR, it opens a file descriptor on the transport
specified by \fInetconf\fR. If the file descriptor is unbound and
\fIbindaddr\fR is non-null \fIfildes\fR is bound to the address specified by
\fIbindaddr\fR, otherwise \fIfildes\fR is bound to a default address chosen by
the transport. In the case where the default address is chosen, the number of
outstanding connect requests is set to 8 for connection-oriented transports.
The user may specify the size of the send and receive buffers with the
parameters \fIsendsz\fR and \fIrecvsz\fR \fI;\fR values of \fB0\fR choose
suitable defaults. This routine returns \fINULL\fR if it fails, and an error
message is logged. The server is not registered with the \fBrpcbind\fR(1M)
service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_tp_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
\fBsvc_tp_create()\fR creates a server handle for the network specified by
\fInetconf\fR, and registers itself with the \fBrpcbind\fR service.
\fIdispatch\fR is called when there is a remote procedure call for the given
\fIprognum\fR and \fIversnum\fR; this requires calling \fBsvc_run()\fR.
\fBsvc_tp_create()\fR returns the service handle if it succeeds, otherwise a
\fINULL\fR is returned and an error message is logged.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_vc_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This routine creates a connection-oriented \fBRPC\fR service and returns a
pointer to it. This routine returns \fINULL\fR if it fails, and an error
message is logged. The users may specify the size of the send and receive
buffers with the parameters \fIsendsz\fR and \fIrecvsz\fR; values of \fB0\fR
choose suitable defaults. The file descriptor \fIfildes\fR should be open and
bound. The server is not registered with the \fBrpcbind\fR(1M) service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBsvc_door_create()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 21n
This routine creates an RPC server handle over doors and returns a pointer to
it. Doors is a transport mechanism that facilitates fast data transfer between
processes on the same machine. for the given program The user may set the size
of the send buffer with the parameter \fIsendsz\fR. If \fIsendsz\fR is 0, the
corresponding default buffer size is 16 Kbyte. If successful, the
\fBsvc_door_create()\fR routine returns the service handle. Otherwise it
returns \fINULL\fR and sets a value for \fBrpc_createerr\fR. The server is not
registered with \fBrpcbind\fR(1M). The \fBSVCSET_CONNMAXREC\fR and
\fBSVCGET_CONNMAXREC\fR \fBsvc_control()\fR requests can be used to set and
change the maximum allowed request size for the doors transport.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Architecture	All
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpcbind\fR(1M), \fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_clnt_create\fR(3NSL),
\fBrpc_svc_calls\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_svc_err\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_svc_reg\fR(3NSL),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
