'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_GSS_SET_DEFAULTS 3NSL "Feb 5, 2002"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_set_defaults \- change service, QOP for a session
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_set_defaults\fR(\fBAUTH\fR \fI*auth\fR, \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR \fIservice\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*qop\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_set_defaults()\fR allows an application to change the service
(privacy, integrity, authentication, or none) and Quality of Protection (QOP)
for a transfer session.  New values apply to the rest of the session (unless
changed again).
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the
\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIauth\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An RPC authentication handle returned by \fBrpc_gss_seccreate()\fR).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIservice\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An enum of type \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR, representing one of the following
types of security service:  authentication, privacy, integrity, or none.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIqop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A string representing Quality of Protection.  Valid strings may be found in the
file \fB/etc/gss/qop\fR or by using \fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info()\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_set_svc_name()\fR returns  TRUE if it is successful; otherwise, use
\fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR to get the error associated with the failure.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/qop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 17n
File containing valid QOPs
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBqop\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
