'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_SVC_CALLS 3NSL "Nov 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
rpc_svc_calls, svc_dg_enablecache, svc_done, svc_exit, svc_fdset, svc_freeargs,
svc_getargs, svc_getreq_common, svc_getreq_poll, svc_getreqset,
svc_getrpccaller, svc_max_pollfd, svc_pollfd, svc_run, svc_sendreply,
svc_getcallerucred, svc_fd_negotiate_ucred \- library routines for RPC servers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR [ \fIflag\fR... ] \fIfile\fR... \fB-lnsl\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR...]
#include <rpc/rpc.h>

\fBint\fR \fBsvc_dg_enablecache\fR(\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR, \fBconst uint_t\fR \fIcache_size\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsvc_done\fR(\fBSVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_exit\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_fd_negotiate_ucred\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBsvc_freeargs\fR(\fBconst SVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR, \fBconst txdrproc_t\fR \fIinproc\fR,
     \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIin\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBsvc_getargs\fR(\fBconst SVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR, \fBconst xdrproc_t\fR \fIinproc\fR,
     \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIin\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBint\fR \fBsvc_getcallerucred\fR(\fBconst SVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR, \fBucred_t **\fR\fIucred\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_getreq_common\fR(\fBconst int\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_getreqset\fR(\fBfd_set *\fR\fIrdfds\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_getreq_poll\fR(\fBstruct pollfd *\fR\fIpfdp\fR, \fBconst int\fR \fIpollretval\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBstruct netbuf *\fR\fBsvc_getrpccaller\fR(\fBconst SVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBsvc_run\fR(\fBvoid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBsvc_sendreply\fR(\fBconst SVCXPRT *\fR\fIxprt\fR, \fBconst xdrproc_t\fR \fIoutproc\fR,
     \fBcaddr_t\fR \fIout\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
int svc_max_pollfd;
fd_set svc_fdset;
pollfd_t *svc_pollfd;
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
These routines are part of the \fBRPC\fR library which allows C language
programs to make procedure calls on other machines across the network.
.sp
.LP
These routines are associated with the server side of the \fBRPC\fR mechanism.
Some of them are called by the server side dispatch function. Others, such as
\fBsvc_run()\fR, are called when the server is initiated.
.sp
.LP
Because the service transport handle \fBSVCXPRT\fR contains a single data area
for decoding arguments and encoding results, the structure cannot freely be
shared between threads that call functions to decode arguments and encode
results. When a server is operating in the Automatic or User MT modes, however,
a copy of this structure is passed to the service dispatch procedure in order
to enable concurrent request processing. Under these circumstances, some
routines which would otherwise be Unsafe, become Safe. These are marked as
such. Also marked are routines that are Unsafe for multithreaded applications,
and are not to be used by such applications. See \fBrpc\fR(3NSL) for the
definition of the \fBSVCXPRT\fR data structure.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_dg_enablecache()\fR function allocates a duplicate request cache for
the service endpoint \fIxprt\fR, large enough to hold \fIcache_size\fR entries.
Once enabled, there is no way to disable caching. The function returns \fB1\fR
if space necessary for a cache of the given size was successfully allocated,
and \fB0\fR otherwise. This function is Safe in multithreaded applications.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_done()\fR function frees resources allocated to service a client
request directed to the service endpoint \fIxprt\fR. This call pertains only to
servers executing in the User MT mode. In the User MT mode, service procedures
must invoke this call before returning, either after a client request has been
serviced, or after an error or abnormal condition that prevents a reply from
being sent. After \fBsvc_done\fR() is invoked, the service endpoint \fIxprt\fR
should not be referenced by the service procedure. Server multithreading modes
and parameters can be set using the \fBrpc_control\fR() call. This function is
Safe in multithreaded applications. It will have no effect if invoked in modes
other than the User MT mode.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_exit()\fR function when called by any of the RPC server procedures
or otherwise, destroys all services registered by the server and causes
\fBsvc_run()\fR to return. If RPC server activity is to be resumed, services
must be reregistered with the RPC library through one of the
\fBrpc_svc_reg\fR(3NSL) functions. The
\fBsvc_exit()\fR function has global scope and ends all RPC server activity.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_freeargs()\fR function macro frees any data allocated by the
\fBRPC/XDR\fR system when it decoded the arguments to a service procedure using
\fBsvc_getargs()\fR. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if the results were
successfully freed, and \fBFALSE\fR otherwise. This function macro is Safe in
multithreaded applications utilizing the Automatic or User MT modes.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_getargs()\fR function macro decodes the arguments of an \fBRPC\fR
request associated with the \fBRPC\fR service transport handle \fIxprt\fR. The
parameter \fIin\fR is the address where the arguments will be placed;
\fIinproc\fR is the \fBXDR\fR routine used to decode the arguments. This
routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if decoding succeeds, and \fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
This function macro is Safe in multithreaded applications utilizing the
Automatic or User MT modes.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_getreq_common()\fR function is called to handle a request on a file
descriptor.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_getreq_poll()\fR function is only of interest if a service
implementor does not call \fBsvc_run()\fR, but instead implements custom
asynchronous event processing. It is called when \fBpoll\fR(2) has determined
that an RPC request has arrived on some RPC file descriptors; \fIpollretval\fR
is the return value from \fBpoll\fR(2) and \fIpfdp\fR is the array of
\fIpollfd\fR structures on which the \fBpoll\fR(2) was done. It is assumed to
be an array large enough to contain the maximal number of descriptors allowed.
The \fBsvc_getreq_poll()\fR function macro is Unsafe in multithreaded
applications.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_getreqset()\fR function is only of interest if a service implementor
does not call \fBsvc_run()\fR, but instead implements custom asynchronous event
processing. It is called when \fBselect\fR(3C) has determined that an \fBRPC\fR
request has arrived on some \fBRPC\fR file descriptors; \fIrdfds\fR is the
resultant read file descriptor bit mask. The routine returns when all file
descriptors associated with the value of \fIrdfds\fR have been serviced. This
function macro is Unsafe in multithreaded applications.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_getrpccaller()\fR function macro is the approved way of getting the
network address of the caller of a procedure associated with the \fBRPC\fR
service transport handle \fIxprt\fR. The returned pointer to struct netbuf
shouldn't be deallocated by the svc_getrpccaller() caller. This function macro
is Safe in multithreaded applications.
.sp
.LP
In single-threaded mode, the \fBsvc_run()\fR
function waits for \fBRPC\fR requests to arrive. When an RPC request arrives,
the \fBsvc_run()\fR function calls the appropriate service procedure. This
procedure is usually waiting for the \fBpoll\fR(2) library call to return.
.sp
.LP
Applications that execute in the Automatic or the User MT mode should invoke
the \fBsvc_run()\fR function exactly once. In the Automatic MT mode, the
\fBsvc_run()\fR function creates threads to service client requests. In the
User MT mode, the function provides a framework for service developers to
create and manage their own threads for servicing client requests.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_fdset\fR global variable reflects the \fBRPC\fR server's read file
descriptor bit mask. This is only of interest if service implementors do not
call \fBsvc_run()\fR, but rather do their own asynchronous event processing.
This variable is read-only may change after calls to \fBsvc_getreqset()\fR or
after any creation routine. Do not pass its address to \fBselect\fR(3C).
Instead, pass the address of a copy. Multithreaded applications executing in
either the Automatic MT mode or the User MT mode should never read this
variable. They should use auxiliary threads to do asynchronous event
processing. The \fBsvc_fdset\fR variable is limited to 1024 file descriptors
and is considered obsolete. Use of \fBsvc_pollfd\fR is recommended instead.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_pollfd\fR global variable points to an array of \fBpollfd_t\fR
structures that reflect the \fBRPC\fR server's read file descriptor array. This
is only of interest if service implementors do not call \fBsvc_run()\fR
but rather do their own asynchronous event processing. This variable is
read-only, and it may change after calls to \fBsvc_getreg_poll()\fR or any
creation routines. Do no pass its address to \fBpoll\fR(2). Instead, pass the
address of a copy. By default, \fBsvc_pollfd\fR is limited to 1024 entries. Use
\fBrpc_control\fR(3NSL) to remove this limitation. Multithreaded applications
executing in either the Automatic MT mode or the User MT mode should never be
read this variable. They should use auxiliary threads to do asynchronous event
processing.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_max_pollfd\fR global variable contains the maximum length of the
\fBsvc_pollfd\fR array. This variable is read-only, and it may change after
calls to \fBsvc_getreg_poll()\fR or any creation routines.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_sendreply()\fR function is called by an \fBRPC\fR service dispatch
routine to send the results of a remote procedure call. The \fIxprt\fR
parameter is the transport handle of the request. The \fIoutproc\fR parameter
is the \fBXDR\fR routine used to encode the results. The \fIout\fR parameter is
the address of the results. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise. The \fBsvc_sendreply()\fR function macro is Safe in
multithreaded applications that use the Automatic or the User MT mode.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_fd_negotiate_ucred()\fR function is called by an RPC server to
inform the underlying transport that the function wishes to receive
\fBucreds\fR for local calls, including those over IP transports.
.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_getcallerucred()\fR function attempts to retrieve the \fBucred_t\fR
associated with the caller. The function returns \fB\fR0 when successful and
\fB-1\fR when not.
.sp
.LP
When successful, the \fBsvc_getcallerucred()\fR function stores the pointer to
a freshly allocated \fBucred_t\fR in the memory location pointed to by the
\fIucred\fR argument if that memory location contains the null pointer. If the
memory location is non-null, the function reuses the existing \fBucred_t\fR.
When \fIucred\fR is no longer needed, a credential allocated by
\fBsvc_getcallerucred()\fR should be freed with \fBucred_free\fR(3C).
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of attribute types and values.
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	See below.
.TE

.sp
.LP
The \fBsvc_fd_negotiate_ucred()\fR, \fBsvc_dg_enablecache()\fR,
\fBsvc_getrpccaller()\fR, and \fBsvc_getcallerucred()\fR functions are Safe in
multithreaded applications. The \fBsvc_freeargs()\fR, \fBsvc_getargs()\fR, and
\fBsvc_sendreply()\fR functions are Safe in multithreaded applications that use
the Automatic or the User MT mode. The \fBsvc_getreq_common()\fR,
\fBsvc_getreqset()\fR, and \fBsvc_getreq_poll()\fR functions are Unsafe in
multithreaded applications and should be called only from the main thread.
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBrpcgen\fR(1), \fBpoll\fR(2), \fBgetpeerucred\fR(3C), \fBrpc\fR(3NSL),
\fBrpc_control\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_svc_create\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_svc_err\fR(3NSL),
\fBrpc_svc_reg\fR(3NSL), \fBselect\fR(3C), \fBucred_free\fR(3C),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
