'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_GSS_GET_ERROR 3NSL "Feb 5, 2002"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_get_error \- get error codes on failure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_get_error\fR(\fBrpc_gss_error_t\fR\fI*error\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR fetches an error code when an \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR
routine fails.
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR uses a \fBrpc_gss_error_t\fR structure of the
following form:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
typedef struct {
int	rpc_gss_error;		\fIRPCSEC_GSS error\fR	
int	system_error;		\fIsystem error\fR
} rpc_gss_error_t;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Currently the only error codes defined for this function are
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#define RPC_GSS_ER_SUCCESS		0	/* no error */
#define RPC_GSS_ER_SYSTEMERROR	1	/* system error */
.fi
.in -2

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the
\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBerror\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A  \fBrpc_gss_error_t\fR structure.  If the \fBrpc_gss_error\fR field is equal
to  \fBRPC_GSS_ER_SYSTEMERROR,\fR the  \fBsystem_error\fR field will be set to
the value of \fBerrno\fR.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Unless there is a failure indication from an invoked \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR function,
\fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR does not set \fBerror\fR to a meaningful value.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBperror\fR(3C), \fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2078, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface, Version 2\fR. Network Working Group. January 1997.
.SH NOTES
.sp
