'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_GSS_MECH_TO_OID 3NSL "Feb 5, 2002"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_mech_to_oid, rpc_gss_qop_to_num \- map mechanism, QOP strings to
non-string values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_mech_to_oid\fR(\fBcharc\fR\fI*mech\fR, \fBrpc_gss_OIDc\fR\fI*oid\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_qop_to_num\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI*qop\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*mech\fR, \fBu_int\fR \fI*num\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
Because in-kernel RPC routines use non-string values for mechanism and Quality
of Protection (QOP), these routines exist to map strings for these attributes
to their non-string counterparts.   (The non-string values for QOP and
mechanism are also found in the \fB/etc/gss/qop\fR and \fB/etc/gss/mech\fR
files, respectively.) \fBrpc_gss_mech_to_oid()\fR takes a string representing a
mechanism, as well as a pointer to a \fBrpc_gss_OID\fR object identifier
structure.  It then gives this structure values corresponding to the indicated
mechanism, so that the application can now use the OID directly with RPC
routines. \fBrpc_gss_qop_to_num()\fR does much the same thing, taking strings
for QOP and mechanism and returning a number.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the
\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImech\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
An ASCII string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid strings may
be found in the \fB/etc/gss/mech\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIoid\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
An object identifier of type \fBrpc_gss_OID\fR, whose elements are usable by
kernel-level RPC routines.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIqop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
This is an ASCII string which sets the quality of protection (QOP) for the
session. Appropriate values for this string may be found in the file
\fB/etc/gss/qop\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fInum\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 9n
The non-string value for the QOP.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Both functions return TRUE if they are successful, FALSE otherwise.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/mech\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/qop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
File containing valid QOP values
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_gss_get_error\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBmech\fR(4), \fBqop\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
