'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_GSS_GET_MECHANISMS 3NSL "Jun 29, 2001"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_get_mechanisms, rpc_gss_get_mech_info, rpc_gss_get_versions,
rpc_gss_is_installed \- get information on mechanisms and RPC version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBchar **\fR\fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms\fR(\fB\fR\fI\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBchar **\fR\fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fImech\fR, \fBrpc_gss_service_t *\fR\fIservice\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_get_versions\fR(\fBu_int *\fR\fIvers_hi\fR, \fBu_int *\fR\fIvers_lo\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t rpc_gss_is\fR \fBinstalled\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fImech\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
These "convenience functions" return information on available security
mechanisms and versions of  \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR .
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Returns a list of supported security mechanisms as a null-terminated list of
character strings.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Takes two arguments:  an ASCII string representing a mechanism type, for
example, \fBkerberosv5\fR, and a pointer to a \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR enum.
\fBrpc_gss_get_mech_info()\fR will return \fBNULL\fR upon error or if no
\fB/etc/gss/qop\fR file is present. Otherwise, it returns a null-terminated
list of character strings of supported Quality of Protections (QOPs) for this
mechanism. \fBNULL\fR or empty list implies only that the default QOP is
available and can be specified to routines that need to take a QOP string
parameter as NULL or as an empty string.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_get_versions()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Returns the highest and lowest versions of  \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR supported.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBrpc_gss_is_installed()\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 29n
Takes an ASCII string representing a mechanism, and returns \fBTRUE\fR if the
mechanism is installed.
.RE

.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the
\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImech\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
An ASCII string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid strings may
also be found in the \fB/etc/gss/mech\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIservice\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
A pointer to a \fBrpc_gss_service_t\fR enum, representing the current security
service (privacy, integrity, or none).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIvers_hi\fR\fR
.ad
.br
.na
\fB\fIvers_lo\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 12n
The highest and lowest versions of \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR supported.
.RE

.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/mech\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/qop\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 18n
File containing valid QOP values
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBmech\fR(4), \fBqop\fR(4),
\fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
.LP
Linn, J. \fIRFC 2743, Generic Security Service Application Program Interface Version 2, Update 1\fR. Network Working Group. January 2000.
.SH NOTES
.sp
