'\" te
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH RPC_GSS_SET_SVC_NAME 3NSL "Feb 5, 2002"
.SH NAME
rpc_gss_set_svc_name \- send a principal name to a server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/rpcsec_gss.h>

\fBbool_t\fR \fBrpc_gss_set_svc_name\fR(\fBchar\fR \fI*principal\fR, \fBchar\fR \fI*mechanism\fR,
     \fBu_int\fR \fIreq_time\fR,\fBu_int\fR \fIprogram\fR, \fBu_int\fR \fIversion\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_set_svc_name()\fR sets the name of a principal the server is to
represent.  If a server is going to act as more than one principal, this
procedure can be invoked for every such principal.
.SH PARAMETERS
.sp
.LP
Information on \fBRPCSEC_GSS\fR data types for parameters may be found on the
\fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL) man page.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprincipal\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An ASCII string representing the server's principal name, given in the form of
\fIservice\fR@\fIhost\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fImech\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
An \fBASCII\fR string representing the security mechanism in use.  Valid
strings may be found in the \fB/etc/gss/mech\fR file, or by using
\fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIreq_time\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The time, in seconds, for which a credential should be valid. Note that the
\fIreq_time\fR is a hint to the underlying mechanism. The actual time that the
credential will remain valid is mechanism dependent. In the case of kerberos
the actual time will be \fBGSS_C_INDEFINITE\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIprogram\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fBRPC\fR program number for this service.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fIversion\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The \fBRPC\fR version number for this service.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc_gss_set_svc_name()\fR returns  \fBTRUE\fR if it is successful;
otherwise, use  \fBrpc_gss_get_error()\fR to get the error associated with the
failure.
.SH FILES
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fB/etc/gss/mech\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 17n
File containing valid security mechanisms
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_gss_get_mechanisms\fR(3NSL), \fBrpc_gss_get_principal_name\fR(3NSL), \fBrpcsec_gss\fR(3NSL), \fBmech\fR(4), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.sp
.LP
\fIONC+ Developer\&'s Guide\fR
.sp
