.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_BIND 3NSL "Dec 27, 2013"
.SH NAME
t_bind \- bind an address to a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_bind\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBconst struct t_bind *\fR\fIreq\fR, \fBstruct t_bind *\fR\fIret\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces that evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  \fBTLI\fR
\fBCOMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences between the two
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function associates a protocol address with the transport endpoint
specified by \fIfd\fR and activates that transport endpoint. In connection
mode, the transport provider may begin enqueuing incoming connect indications,
or servicing a connection request on the transport endpoint. In
connectionless-mode, the transport user may send or receive data units through
the transport endpoint.
.sp
.LP
The \fIreq\fR and \fIret\fR arguments point to a \fBt_bind\fR structure
containing the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf	addr;
unsigned	qlen;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fIaddr\fR field of the \fBt_bind\fR structure specifies a protocol
address, and the \fIqlen\fR field is used to indicate the maximum number of
outstanding connection indications.
.sp
.LP
The parameter \fIreq\fR is used to request that an address, represented by the
\fBnetbuf\fR structure, be bound to the given transport endpoint. The parameter
\fIlen\fR specifies the number of bytes in the address, and \fIbuf\fR points to
the address buffer. The parameter \fImaxlen\fR has no meaning for the \fIreq\fR
argument. On return, \fIret\fR contains an encoding for the address that the
transport provider actually bound to the transport endpoint; if an address was
specified in  \fIreq\fR, this will be an encoding of the same address. In
\fIret\fR, the user specifies \fImaxlen,\fR which is the maximum size of the
address buffer, and \fIbuf\fR which points to the buffer where the address is
to be placed. On return, \fIlen\fR specifies the number of bytes in the bound
address, and \fIbuf\fR points to the bound address. If \fImaxlen\fR equals
zero, no address is returned. If  \fImaxlen\fR is greater than zero and less
than the length of the address,  \fBt_bind()\fR fails with \fBt_errno\fR set to
\fBTBUFOVFLW\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the requested address is not available, \fBt_bind()\fR will return  -1 with
\fBt_errno\fR set as appropriate. If no address is specified in \fIreq\fR (the
\fIlen\fR field of \fIaddr\fR in \fIreq\fR is zero or \fIreq\fR is
\fBNULL),\fR the transport provider will assign an appropriate address to be
bound, and will return that address in the \fIaddr\fR field of \fIret\fR. If
the transport provider could not allocate an address, \fBt_bind()\fR will fail
with \fBt_errno\fR set to \fBTNOADDR\fR.
.sp
.LP
The parameter \fIreq\fR may be a null pointer if the user does not wish to
specify an address to be bound. Here, the value of \fIqlen\fR is assumed to be
zero, and the transport provider will assign an address to the transport
endpoint. Similarly, \fIret\fR may be a null pointer if the user does not care
what address was bound by the provider and is not interested in the negotiated
value of \fIqlen\fR. It is valid to set \fIreq\fR and \fIret\fR to the null
pointer for the same call, in which case the provider chooses the address to
bind to the transport endpoint and does not return that information to the
user.
.sp
.LP
The \fIqlen\fR field has meaning only when initializing a connection-mode
service. It specifies the number of outstanding connection indications that the
transport provider should support for the given transport endpoint. An
outstanding connection indication is one that has been passed to the transport
user by the transport provider but which has not been accepted or rejected. A
value of \fIqlen\fR greater than zero is only meaningful when issued by a
passive transport user that expects other users to call it. The value of
\fIqlen\fR will be negotiated by the transport provider and may be changed if
the transport provider cannot support the specified number of outstanding
connection indications. However, this value of \fIqlen\fR will never be
negotiated from a requested value greater than zero to zero. This is a
requirement on transport providers; see \fBWARNINGS\fR below. On return, the
\fIqlen\fR field in \fIret\fR will contain the negotiated value.
.sp
.LP
If \fIfd\fR refers to a connection-mode service, this function allows more than
one transport endpoint to be bound to the same protocol address.  It is not
possible to bind more than one protocol address to the same transport endpoint.
However, the transport provider must also support this capability. If a user
binds more than one transport endpoint to the same protocol address, only one
endpoint can be used to listen for connection indications associated with that
protocol address. In other words, only one \fBt_bind()\fR for a given protocol
address may specify a value of \fIqlen\fR greater than zero. In this way, the
transport provider can identify which transport endpoint should be notified of
an incoming connection indication. If a user attempts to bind a protocol
address to a second transport endpoint with a value of \fIqlen\fR greater than
zero, \fBt_bind()\fR will return  -1 and set \fBt_errno\fR to \fBTADDRBUSY\fR.
When a user accepts a connection on the transport endpoint that is being used
as the listening endpoint, the bound protocol address will be found to be busy
for the duration of the connection, until a \fBt_unbind\fR(3NSL) or
\fBt_close\fR(3NSL) call has been issued. No other transport endpoints may be
bound for listening on that same protocol address while that initial listening
endpoint is active (in the data transfer phase or in the  \fBT_IDLE\fR state).
This will prevent more than one transport endpoint bound to the same protocol
address from accepting connection indications.
.sp
.LP
If  \fIfd\fR refers to connectionless mode service, this function allows for
more than one transport endpoint to be associated with a protocol address,
where the underlying transport provider supports this capability (often in
conjunction with value of a protocol-specific option). If a user attempts to
bind a second transport endpoint to an already bound protocol address when such
capability is not supported for a transport provider, \fBt_bind()\fR will
return  -1 and set \fBt_errno\fR to \fBTADDRBUSY\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.  Otherwise, a value of
-1 is returned and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_UNBND\fR
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The user does not have permission to use the specified address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTADDRBUSY\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The requested address is in use.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADADDR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The specified protocol address was in an incorrect format or contained illegal
information.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBUFOVFLW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The number of bytes allowed for an incoming argument \fI(maxlen)\fR is greater
than 0 but not sufficient to store the value of that argument. The provider's
state will change to  \fBT_IDLE\fR and the information to be returned in
\fIret\fR will be discarded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The communications endpoint referenced by  \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOADDR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The transport provider could not allocate an address.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.sp
.LP
\fB#include\fR \fB<tiuser.h>\fR
.SS "Address Bound"
.sp
.LP
The user can compare the addresses in \fIreq\fR and \fIret\fR to determine
whether the transport provider bound the transport endpoint to a different
address than that requested.
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR values \fBTPROTO\fR and \fBTADDRBUSY\fR can be set by the
\fBXTI\fR interface but cannot be set by the \fBTLI\fR interface.
.sp
.LP
A \fBt_errno\fR value that this routine can return under different
circumstances than its \fBXTI\fR counterpart is \fBTBUFOVFLW\fR. It can be
returned even when the \fBmaxlen\fR field of the corresponding buffer has been
set to zero.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_accept\fR(3NSL), \fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL), \fBt_close\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_connect\fR(3NSL), \fBt_unbind\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
The requirement that the value of \fIqlen\fR never be negotiated from a
requested value greater than zero to zero implies that transport providers,
rather than the XTI implementation itself, accept this restriction.
.sp
.LP
An implementation need not allow an application explicitly to bind more than
one communications endpoint to a single protocol address, while permitting more
than one connection to be accepted to the same protocol address. That means
that although an attempt to bind a communications endpoint to some address with
\fIqlen=0\fR might be rejected with \fBTADDRBUSY\fR, the user may nevertheless
use this (unbound) endpoint as a responding endpoint in a call to
\fBt_accept\fR(3NSL). To become independent of such implementation differences,
the user should supply unbound responding endpoints to  \fBt_accept\fR(3NSL).
.sp
.LP
The local address bound to an endpoint may change as result of a
\fBt_accept\fR(3NSL) or  \fBt_connect\fR(3NSL) call. Such changes are not
necessarily reversed when the connection is released.
