.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_ERRNO 3NSL "April 9, 2016"
.SH NAME
t_errno \- XTI error return value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This error return value is part of the XTI interfaces that evolved from the TLI
interfaces. XTI represents the future evolution of these interfaces. However,
TLI interfaces are supported for compatibility. When using a TLI interface that
has the same name as an XTI interfaces, a different headerfile,
<\fBtiuser.h\fR>, must be used. Refer to the TLI COMPATIBILITY section for a
description of differences between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
\fBt_errno\fR is used by XTI functions to return error values.
.sp
.LP
XTI functions provide an error number in  \fBt_errno\fR which has type
\fIint\fR and is defined in  \fB<xti.h>\fR\&. The value of  \fBt_errno\fR will
be defined only after a call to a XTI function for which it is explicitly
stated to be set and until it is changed by the next XTI function call. The
value of  \fBt_errno\fR should only be examined when it is indicated to be
valid by a function's return value. Programs should obtain the definition of
\fBt_errno\fR by the inclusion of  \fB<xti.h>\fR\&. The practice of defining
\fBt_errno\fR in program as  \fBextern\fR \fBint\fR \fBt_errno\fR is
obsolescent. No XTI function sets  \fBt_errno\fR to 0 to indicate an error.
.sp
.LP
It is unspecified whether \fBt_errno\fR is a macro or an identifier with
external linkage.  It represents a modifiable  \fBlvalue\fR of type \fIint\fR.
If a macro definition is suppressed in order to access an actual object or a
program defines an identifier with name  \fIt_errno\fR, the behavior is
undefined.
.sp
.LP
The symbolic values stored in  \fBt_errno\fR by an XTI function are defined in
the \fBERRORS\fR sections in all relevant XTI function definition pages.
.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.LP
\fBt_errno\fR is also used by TLI functions to return error values.
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, <\fBxti.h\fR>. \fBTLI\fR
interfaces should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
\fB#include <tiuser.h>\fR
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR values that can be set by the \fBXTI\fR interface but cannot
be set by the \fBTLI\fR interface are:
.br
.in +2
\fBTNOSTRUCTYPE\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTBADNAME\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTBADQLEN\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTADDRBUSY\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTINDOUT\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTPROVMISMATCH\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTRESADDR\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTQFULL\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTPROTO\fR
.in -2
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBattributes\fR(5)
