.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_ERROR 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_error \- produce error message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_error\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIerrmsg\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  \fBTLI\fR
\fBCOMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences between the two
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_error()\fR function produces a message on the standard error output
which describes the last error encountered during a call to a transport
function. The argument string \fIerrmsg\fR is a user-supplied error message
that gives context to the error.
.sp
.LP
The error message is written as follows: first (if \fIerrmsg\fR is not a null
pointer and the character pointed to be \fIerrmsg\fR is not the null character)
the string pointed to by \fIerrmsg\fR followed by a colon and a space; then a
standard error message string for the current error defined in \fBt_errno\fR.
If \fBt_errno\fR has a value different from \fBTSYSERR\fR, the standard error
message string is followed by a newline character.  If, however, \fBt_errno\fR
is equal to \fBTSYSERR\fR, the \fBt_errno\fR string is followed by the standard
error message string for the current error defined in \fBerrno\fR followed by a
newline.
.sp
.LP
The language for error message strings written by \fBt_error()\fR is that of
the current locale.  If it is English, the error message string describing the
value in \fBt_errno\fR may be derived from the comments following the
\fBt_errno\fR codes defined in \fBxti.h\fR.  The contents of the error message
strings describing the value in \fBerrno\fR are the same as those returned by
the  \fBstrerror\fR(3C) function with an argument of \fBerrno\fR.
.sp
.LP
The error number, \fBt_errno\fR, is only set when an error occurs and it is not
cleared on successful calls.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
If a \fBt_connect\fR(3NSL) function fails on transport endpoint \fIfd2\fR
because a bad address was given, the following call might follow the failure:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
t_error("t_connect failed on fd2");
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The diagnostic message to be printed would look like:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
t_connect failed on fd2: incorrect addr format
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where \fIincorrect addr format\fR identifies the specific error that occurred,
and \fIt_connect failed on fd2\fR tells the user which function failed on which
transport endpoint.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
All - apart from \fBT_UNINIT\fR
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
No errors are defined for the \fBt_error()\fR function.
.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <tiuser.h>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR value that can be set by the \fBXTI\fR interface and cannot
be set by the \fBTLI\fR interface is:
.sp
.LP
\fBTPROTO\fR
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_errno\fR(3NSL), \fBstrerror\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
