.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\"
.TH T_FREE 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_free \- free a library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_free\fR(\fBvoid *\fR\fIptr\fR, \fBint\fR \fIstruct_type\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  \fBTLI\fR
\fBCOMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences between the two
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_free()\fR function frees memory previously allocated by
\fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL). This function will free memory for the specified
structure, and will also free memory for buffers referenced by the structure.
.sp
.LP
The argument \fIptr\fR points to one of the seven structure types described for
\fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL), and \fIstruct_type\fR identifies the type of that
structure which must be one of the following:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
T_BIND      struct	t_bind
T_CALL      struct	t_call
T_OPTMGMT   struct	t_optmgmt
T_DIS       struct	t_discon
T_UNITDATA  struct	t_unitdata
T_UDERROR   struct	t_uderr
T_INFO      struct	t_info
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
where each of these structures is used as an argument to one or more transport
functions.
.sp
.LP
The function \fBt_free()\fR will check the \fIaddr\fR, \fIopt\fR and
\fIudata\fR fields of the given structure, as appropriate, and free the buffers
pointed to by the \fIbuf\fR field of the \fBnetbuf\fR structure. If \fIbuf\fR
is a null pointer, \fBt_free()\fR will not attempt to free memory.  After all
buffers are freed, \fBt_free()\fR will free the memory associated with the
structure pointed to by \fIptr\fR.
.sp
.LP
Undefined results will occur if \fIptr\fR or any of the \fIbuf\fR pointers
points to a block of memory that was not previously allocated by
\fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
ALL - apart from \fBT_UNINIT\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOSTRUCTYPE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
Unsupported \fIstruct_type\fR requested.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fI(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 16n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
#include <tiuser.h>
.fi
.in -2

.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR value that can be set by the \fBXTI\fR interface and cannot
be set by the \fBTLI\fR interface is:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 11n

.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
