.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_RCVCONNECT 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_rcvconnect \- receive the confirmation from a connection request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvconnect\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_call *\fR\fIcall\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  \fBTLI\fR
\fBCOMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences between the two
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function enables a calling transport user to determine the status of a
previously sent connection request and is used in conjunction with
\fBt_connect\fR(3NSL) to establish a connection in asynchronous mode, and to
complete a synchronous  \fBt_connect\fR(3NSL) call that was interrupted by a
signal. The connection will be established on successful completion of this
function.
.sp
.LP
The argument \fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint where
communication will be established, and \fIcall\fR contains information
associated with the newly established connection. The argument \fIcall\fR
points to a \fBt_call\fR structure which contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fBstruct netbuf addr;
struct netbuf opt;
struct netbuf udata;
int sequence;\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
In \fIcall\fR, \fIaddr\fR returns the protocol address associated with the
responding transport endpoint, \fIopt\fR presents any options associated with
the connection, \fIudata\fR points to optional user data that may be returned
by the destination transport user during connection establishment, and
\fIsequence\fR has no meaning for this function.
.sp
.LP
The \fImaxlen\fR field of each argument must be set before issuing this
function to indicate the maximum size of the buffer for each. However,
\fImaxlen\fR can be set to zero, in which case no information to this specific
argument is given to the user on the return from  \fBt_rcvconnect()\fR. If
\fIcall\fR is set to  \fINULL,\fR no information at all is returned. By
default, \fBt_rcvconnect()\fR executes in synchronous mode and waits for the
connection to be established before returning. On return, the \fIaddr\fR,
\fIopt\fR and \fIudata\fR fields reflect values associated with the connection.
.sp
.LP
If  \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR is set by means of \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or \fBfcntl\fR(2),
\fBt_rcvconnect()\fR executes in asynchronous mode, and reduces to a poll for
existing connection confirmations. If none are available, \fBt_rcvconnect()\fR
fails and returns immediately without waiting for the connection to be
established. See \fBTNODATA\fR below. In this case, \fBt_rcvconnect()\fR must
be called again to complete the connection establishment phase and retrieve the
information returned in \fIcall\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_OUTCON\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBUFOVFLW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The number of bytes allocated for an incoming argument \fI(maxlen)\fR is
greater than  \fB0\fR but not sufficient to store the value of that argument,
and the connection information to be returned in \fIcall\fR will be discarded.
The provider's state, as seen by the user, will be changed to
\fBT_DATAXFER.\fR
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTLOOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport connection and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNODATA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR was set, but a connection confirmation has not yet arrived.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by  \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
#include<tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR value \fBTPROTO\fR can be set by the \fBXTI\fR interface but
not by the \fBTLI\fR interface.
.sp
.LP
A \fBt_errno\fR value that this routine can return under different
circumstances than its \fBXTI\fR counterpart is \fBTBUFOVFLW\fR. It can be
returned even when the \fBmaxlen\fR field of the corresponding buffer has been
set to zero.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBfcntl\fR(2), \fBt_accept\fR(3NSL), \fBt_alloc\fR(3NSL), \fBt_bind\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_connect\fR(3NSL), \fBt_listen\fR(3NSL), \fBt_open\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_optmgmt\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
