'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T  Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH T_RCVUDERR 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_rcvuderr \- receive a unit data error indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvuderr\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_uderr *\fR\fIuderr\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  \fBTLI\fR
\fBCOMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences between the two
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function is used in connectionless-mode to receive information concerning
an error on a previously sent data unit, and should only be issued following a
unit data error indication. It informs the transport user that a data unit with
a specific destination address and protocol options produced an error. The
argument \fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint through which the
error report will be received, and \fIuderr\fR points to a \fBt_uderr\fR
structure containing the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf addr;
struct netbuf opt;
t_scalar_t error;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The \fImaxlen\fR field of \fIaddr\fR and \fIopt\fR must be set before calling
this function to indicate the maximum size of the buffer for each. If this
field is set to zero for  \fIaddr\fR or  \fIopt\fR, no information is returned
in the  \fIbuf\fR field of this parameter.
.sp
.LP
On return from this call, the \fIaddr\fR structure specifies the destination
protocol address of the erroneous data unit, the \fIopt\fR structure identifies
options that were associated with the data unit, and \fBerror\fR specifies a
protocol-dependent error code.
.sp
.LP
If the user does not care to identify the data unit that produced an error,
\fIuderr\fR may be set to a null pointer, and \fBt_rcvuderr()\fR will simply
clear the error indication without reporting any information to the user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_IDLE\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBUFOVFLW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or options
\fI(maxlen)\fR is greater than 0 but not sufficient to store the information.
The unit data error information to be returned in \fIuderr\fR will be
discarded.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOUDERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
No unit data error indication currently exists on the specified transport
endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
\fB#include <tiuser.h>\fR
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR values \fBTPROTO\fR and \fBTOUTSTATE\fR can be set by the
\fBXTI\fR interface but not by the \fBTLI\fR interface.
.sp
.LP
A \fBt_errno\fR value that this routine can return under different
circumstances than its \fBXTI\fR counterpart is \fBTBUFOVFLW.\fR It can be
returned even when the \fBmaxlen\fR field of the corresponding buffer has been
set to zero.
.SS "Option Buffers"
.sp
.LP
The format of the options in an \fBopt\fR buffer is dictated by the transport
provider. Unlike the \fBXTI\fR interface, the \fBTLI\fR interface does not fix
the buffer format.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_rcvudata\fR(3NSL), \fBt_sndudata\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
