'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T  Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH T_RCVRELDATA 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_rcvreldata \- receive an orderly release indication or confirmation
containing user data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_rcvreldata\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_discon *\fR\fIdiscon\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is used to receive an orderly release indication for the incoming
direction of data transfer and to retrieve any user data sent with the release.
The argument  \fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint where the
connection exists, and  \fIdiscon\fR points to a \fBt_discon\fR structure
containing the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf udata;
int reason;
int sequence;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
After receipt of this indication, the user may not attempt to receive  more
data by means of  \fBt_rcv\fR(3NSL) or  \fBt_rcvv\fR(3NSL) Such an attempt will
fail with  \fIt_error\fR set to \fBTOUTSTATE\fR. However, the user may continue
to send data over the connection if  \fBt_sndrel\fR(3NSL) or \fBt_sndreldata\fR
\fB(3N)\fR has not been called by the user.
.sp
.LP
The field  \fIreason\fR specifies the reason for the disconnection through a
protocol-dependent  \fIreason code\fR, and  \fIudata\fR identifies any user
data that was sent with the disconnection; the field  \fIsequence\fR is not
used.
.sp
.LP
If a user does not care if there is incoming data and does not need to know the
value of  \fIreason\fR, \fIdiscon\fR may be a null pointer, and any user data
associated with the disconnection will be discarded.
.sp
.LP
If  \fIdiscon\(->udata.maxlen\fR is greater than zero and less than the length
of the value,  \fBt_rcvreldata()\fR fails with  \fBt_errno\fR set to
\fBTBUFOVFLW\fR.
.sp
.LP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider, only supported
by providers of service type \fBT_COTS_ORD.\fR The flag  \fBT_ORDRELDATA\fR in
the  \fIinfo\(->flag\fR field returned by  \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or
\fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL) indicates that the provider supports orderly release user
data; when the flag is not set, this function behaves like \fBt_rcvrel\fR(3NSL)
and no user data is returned.
.sp
.LP
This function may not be available on all systems.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned. Otherwise, a value
of  -1 is returned and  \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_DATAXFER\fR, \fBT_OUTREL\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,  \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBUFOVFLW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The number of bytes allocated for incoming data (maxlen) is greater than
\fB0\fR but not sufficient to store the data, and the disconnection information
to be returned in  \fIdiscon\fR will be discarded. The provider state, as seen
by the user, will be changed as if the data was successfully retrieved.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTLOOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOREL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified transport
endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Orderly release is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the \fBTLI\fR interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL), \fBt_open\fR(3NSL), \fBt_sndreldata\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_rcvrel\fR(3NSL), \fBt_sndrel\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces \fBt_sndreldata\fR(3NSL) and \fBt_rcvreldata()\fR are only for
use with a specific transport called "minimal OSI," which is not available on
the Solaris platform. These interfaces are not available for use in conjunction
with Internet Transports (\fBTCP\fR or \fBUDP\fR).
