'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T  Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH T_SNDDIS 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_snddis \- send user-initiated disconnection request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_snddis\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBconst struct t_call *\fR\fIcall\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  TLI COMPATIBILITY
section for a description of differences between the two interfaces.
.sp
.LP
This function is used to initiate an abortive release on an already established
connection, or to reject a connection request. The argument \fIfd\fR identifies
the local transport endpoint of the connection, and \fIcall\fR specifies
information associated with the abortive release. The argument \fIcall\fR
points to a \fBt_call\fR structure which contains the following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf addr;
struct netbuf opt;
struct netbuf udata;
int sequence;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
The values in \fIcall\fR have different semantics, depending on the context of
the call to \fBt_snddis()\fR. When rejecting a connection request, \fIcall\fR
must be non-null and contain a valid value of \fIsequence\fR to uniquely
identify the rejected connection indication to the transport provider. The
\fIsequence\fR field is only meaningful if the transport connection is in the
\fBT_INCON\fR state. The \fIaddr\fR and \fIopt\fR fields of \fIcall\fR are
ignored. In all other cases, \fIcall\fR need only be used when data is being
sent with the disconnection request. The \fIaddr\fR, \fIopt\fR and
\fIsequence\fR fields of the \fBt_call\fR structure are ignored. If the user
does not wish to send data to the remote user, the value of \fIcall\fR may be a
null pointer.
.sp
.LP
The \fIudata\fR structure specifies the user data to be sent to the remote
user. The amount of user data must not exceed the limits supported by the
transport provider, as returned in the \fIdiscon\fR field, of the \fIinfo\fR
argument of \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL). If the \fIlen\fR field
of \fIudata\fR is zero, no data will be sent to the remote user.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_DATAXFER\fR, \fBT_OUTCON\fR, \fBT_OUTREL\fR, \fBT_INREL\fR,
\fBT_INCON(ocnt > 0)\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADDATA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The amount of user data specified was not within the bounds allowed by the
transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADSEQ\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An invalid sequence number was specified, or a null \fIcall\fR pointer was
specified, when rejecting a connection request.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTLOOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An asynchronous event, which requires attention, has occurred.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by  \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable \fBX\fRTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
\fB#include <tiuser.h>\fR
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR value \fBTPROTO\fR can be set by the \fBXTI\fR interface but
not by the \fBTLI\fR interface.
.SS "Option Buffers"
.sp
.LP
The format of the options in an \fBopt\fR buffer is dictated by the transport
provider. Unlike the \fBXTI\fR interface, the \fBTLI\fR interface does not fix
the buffer format.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_connect\fR(3NSL), \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL), \fBt_listen\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_open\fR(3NSL), \fBt_snd\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
\fBt_snddis()\fR is an abortive disconnection. Therefore a \fBt_snddis()\fR
issued on a connection endpoint  may cause data previously sent by means of
\fBt_snd\fR(3NSL), or data not yet received, to be lost, even if an error is
returned.
