.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_SNDRELDATA 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_sndreldata \- initiate or respond to an orderly release with user data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>




\fBint\fR \fBt_sndreldata\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBstruct t_discon *\fR\fIdiscon\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is used to initiate an orderly release of the outgoing direction
of data transfer and to send user data with the release.  The argument
\fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists,
and  \fIdiscon\fR points to a  \fB t_discon\fR structure containing the
following members:
.sp
.in +2
.nf
struct netbuf udata;
int reason;
int sequence;
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
After calling  \fBt_sndreldata()\fR, the user may not send any more data over
the connection.  However, a user may continue to receive data if an orderly
release indication has not been received.
.sp
.LP
The field  \fIreason\fR specifies the reason for the disconnection through a
protocol-dependent  \fIreason code\fR, and  \fIudata\fR identifies any user
data that is sent with the disconnection; the field  \fIsequence\fR is not
used.
.sp
.LP
The  \fIudata\fR structure specifies the user data to be sent to the remote
user.  The amount of user data must not exceed the limits supported by the
transport provider, as returned in the  \fIdiscon\fR field of the  \fIinfo\fR
argument of \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or  \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL). If the  \fIlen\fR
field of  \fIudata\fR is zero or if the provider did not return
\fBT_ORDRELDATA\fR in the  \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) flags, no data will be sent to
the remote user.
.sp
.LP
If a user does not wish to send data and reason code to the remote user, the
value of  \fIdiscon\fR may be a null pointer.
.sp
.LP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider, only supported
by providers of service type \fBT_COTS_ORD.\fR The flag  \fBT_ORDRELDATA\fR in
the  \fIinfo\(->flag\fR field returned by  \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or
\fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL) indicates that the provider supports orderly release user
data.
.sp
.LP
This function may not be available on all systems.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is returned and  \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_DATAXFER\fR, \fBT_INREL\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,  \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADDATA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The amount of user data specified was not within the bounds allowed by the
transport provider, or user data was supplied and the provider did not return
\fBT_ORDRELDATA\fR in the  \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) flags.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR was set, but the flow control mechanism prevented the
transport provider from accepting the function at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTLOOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
Orderly release is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the \fBTLI\fR interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL), \fBt_open\fR(3NSL), \fBt_rcvrel\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_rcvreldata\fR(3NSL), \fBt_sndrel\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
The interfaces \fBt_sndreldata()\fR and \fBt_rcvreldata\fR(3NSL) are only for
use with a specific transport called "minimal OSI," which is not available on
the Solaris platform. These interfaces are not available for use in conjunction
with Internet Transports (\fBTCP\fR or \fBUDP\fR).
