'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved  Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T  Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation. Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their documentation. In the following statement, the phrase "this text" refers to portions of the system documentation. Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form in the Sun OS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition, Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"  This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH T_SNDREL 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_sndrel \- initiate an orderly release
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_sndrel\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This routine is part of the \fBXTI\fR interfaces which evolved from the
\fBTLI\fR interfaces. \fBXTI\fR represents the future evolution of these
interfaces. However, \fBTLI\fR interfaces are supported for compatibility. When
using a \fBTLI\fR routine that has the same name as an \fBXTI\fR routine, the
\fBtiuser.h\fR header file must be used.  Refer to the  \fBTLI\fR
\fBCOMPATIBILITY\fR section for a description of differences between the two
interfaces.
.sp
.LP
For transport providers of type  \fBT_COTS_ORD,\fR this function is used to
initiate an orderly release of the outgoing direction of data transfer and
indicates to the transport provider that the transport user has no more data to
send. The argument \fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint where the
connection exists. After calling \fBt_sndrel()\fR, the user may not send any
more data over the connection. However, a user may continue to receive data if
an orderly release indication has not been received. For transport providers of
types other than  \fBT_COTS_ORD,\fR this function fails with error
\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, a value of  \fB0\fR is returned.  Otherwise, a
value of  -1 is \fBreturned\fR and \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_DATAXFER\fR, \fBT_INREL\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure, \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR was set, but the flow control mechanism prevented the
transport provider from accepting the function at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTLOOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by  \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR and \fBTLI\fR interface definitions have common names but use
different header files. This, and other semantic differences between the two
interfaces are described in the subsections below.
.SS "Interface Header"
.sp
.LP
The \fBXTI\fR interfaces use the header file, \fBxti.h\fR. \fBTLI\fR interfaces
should \fInot\fR use this header.  They should use the header:
.br
.in +2
#include <tiuser.h>
.in -2
.SS "Error Description Values"
.sp
.LP
The \fBt_errno\fR values that can be set by the \fBXTI\fR interface and cannot
be set by the \fBTLI\fR interface are:
.br
.in +2
\fBTPROTO\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTLOOK\fR
.in -2
.br
.in +2
\fBTOUTSTATE\fR
.in -2
.SS "Notes"
.sp
.LP
Whenever this function fails with \fBt_error\fR set to \fBTFLOW,\fR
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR must have been set.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_error\fR(3NSL), \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL), \fBt_open\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_rcvrel\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
