.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_SNDV 3NSL "Aug 23, 2001"
.SH NAME
t_sndv \- send data or expedited data, from one or more non-contiguous buffers,
on a connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_sndv\fR(\fBint\fR \fIfd\fR, \fBconst struct t_iovec *\fR\fIiov\fR, \fBunsigned int\fR \fIiovcount\fR, \fBint\fR \fIflags\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
This function is used to send either normal or expedited data.  The argument
\fIfd\fR identifies the local transport endpoint over which data should be
sent,  \fIiov\fR points to an array of buffer address/buffer length pairs.
\fBt_sndv()\fR sends data contained in buffers  \fIiov\fR\fB0\fR\fI , \fR
\fIiov\fR\fB1\fR\fI ,\fR through  \fIiov [iovcount-1]\fR\fB\&.\fR
\fIiovcount\fR contains the number of non-contiguous data buffers which is
limited to  \fBT_IOV_MAX\fR, an implementation-defined value of at least 16.
If the limit is exceeded, the function fails with \fBTBADDATA\fR.
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fIiov(0).iov_len + . . + iov(iovcount-1).iov_len\fR)
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
Note that the limit on the total number of bytes available in all buffers
passed:
.sp
.LP
may be constrained by implementation limits. If no other constraint applies, it
will be limited by \fBINT_MAX\fR. In practice, the availability of memory to an
application is likely to impose a lower limit on the amount of data that can be
sent or received using scatter/gather functions.
.sp
.LP
The argument  \fIflags\fR specifies any optional flags described below:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT_EXPEDITED\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
If set in \fIflags\fR, the data will be sent as expedited data and will be
subject to the interpretations of the transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBT_MORE\fR \fR
.ad
.RS 16n
If set in  \fIflags\fR, this indicates to the transport provider that the
transport service data unit (TSDU) (or expedited transport service data unit -
ETSDU) is being sent through multiple \fBt_sndv()\fR calls. Each
\fBt_sndv()\fR with the  \fBT_MORE\fR flag set indicates that another
\fBt_sndv()\fR or  \fBt_snd\fR(3NSL) will follow with more data for the current
TSDU (or ETSDU).
.RE

.sp
.LP
The end of the TSDU (or ETSDU) is identified by a  \fBt_sndv()\fR call with the
\fBT_MORE\fR flag not set.  Use of  \fBT_MORE\fR enables a user to break up
large logical data units without losing the boundaries of those units at the
other end of the connection.  The flag implies nothing about how the data is
packaged for transfer below the transport interface.  If the transport provider
does not support the concept of a TSDU as indicated in the  \fIinfo\fR argument
on return from  \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL), the  \fBT_MORE\fR
flag is not meaningful and will be ignored if set.
.sp
.LP
The sending of a zero-length fragment of a TSDU or ETSDU is only permitted
where this is used to indicate the end of a TSDU or ETSDU, that is, when the
\fBT_MORE\fR flag is not set. Some transport providers also forbid zero-length
TSDUs and ETSDUs.
.sp
.LP
If set in \fIflags\fR, requests that the provider transmit all data that it has
accumulated but not sent.  The request is a local action on the provider and
does not affect any similarly named protocol flag (for example, the TCP PUSH
flag). This effect of setting this flag is protocol\(hydependent, and it may be
ignored entirely by transport providers which do not support the use of this
feature.
.sp
.LP
The communications provider is free to collect data in a send buffer until it
accumulates a sufficient amount for transmission.
.sp
.LP
By default,  \fBt_sndv()\fR operates in synchronous mode and may wait if flow
control restrictions prevent the data from being accepted by the local
transport provider at the time the call is made.  However, if  \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR
is set by means of \fBt_open\fR(3NSL) or  \fBfcntl\fR(2), \fBt_sndv()\fR
executes in asynchronous mode, and will fail immediately if there are flow
control restrictions.  The process can arrange to be informed when the flow
control restrictions are cleared via either \fBt_look\fR(3NSL) or the EM
interface.
.sp
.LP
On successful completion,  \fBt_sndv()\fR returns the number of bytes accepted
by the transport provider.  Normally this will equal the total number of bytes
to be sent, that is,
.sp
.in +2
.nf
\fI(iov\fR\fB0.iov_len + .. + iov[iovcount-1].iov_len)\fR
.fi
.in -2

.sp
.LP
However, the interface is constrained to send at most  \fBINT_MAX\fR bytes in a
single send.  When  \fBt_sndv()\fR has submitted  \fBINT_MAX\fR (or lower
constrained value, see the note above) bytes to the provider for a single call,
this value is returned to the user.   However, if \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR is set or
the function is interrupted by a signal, it is possible that only part of the
data has actually been accepted by the communications provider.  In this case,
\fBt_sndv()\fR returns a value that is less than the value of nbytes.  If
\fBt_sndv()\fR is interrupted by a signal before it could transfer data to the
communications provider, it returns  -1 \fBwith\fR \fBt_errno\fR set to
\fBTSYSERR\fR and  \fBerrno\fR set to \fBEINTR\fR.
.sp
.LP
If the number of bytes of data in the  \fIiov\fR array is zero and sending of
zero octets is not supported by the underlying transport service,
\fBt_sndv()\fR returns  -1 \fBwith\fR \fBt_errno\fR set to \fBTBADDATA\fR.
.sp
.LP
The size of each TSDU or ETSDU must not exceed the limits of the transport
provider as specified by the current values in the TSDU or ETSDU fields in the
\fIinfo\fR argument returned by \fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL).
.sp
.LP
The error \fBTLOOK\fR is returned for asynchronous events. It is required only
for an incoming disconnect event but may be returned for other events.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
On successful completion,  \fBt_sndv()\fR returns the number of bytes accepted
by the transport provider.  Otherwise,  -1 is returned on failure and
\fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate the error.
.sp
.LP
Note that in synchronous mode, if more than  \fBINT_MAX\fR bytes of data are
passed in the  \fIiov\fR array, only the first  \fBINT_MAX\fR bytes will be
passed to the provider.
.sp
.LP
If the number of bytes accepted by the communications provider is less than the
number of bytes requested, this may either indicate that  \fBO_NONBLOCK\fR is
set and the communications provider is blocked due to flow control, or that
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR is clear and the function was interrupted by a signal.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
\fBT_DATAXFER\fR, \fBT_INREL\fR.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,  \fBt_errno\fR is set to one of the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADDATA\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
Illegal amount of data:
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADF\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A single send was attempted specifying a TSDU (ETSDU) or fragment TSDU (ETSDU)
greater than that specified by the current values of the TSDU or ETSDU fields
in the  \fIinfo\fR argument.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
A send of a zero byte TSDU (ETSDU) or zero byte fragment of a TSDU (ETSDU) is
not supported by the provider.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
Multiple sends were attempted resulting in a TSDU (ETSDU) larger than that
specified by the current value of the TSDU or ETSDU fields in the  \fIinfo\fR
argument - the ability of an XTI implementation to detect such an error case is
implementation-dependent. See \fBWARNINGS\fR, below.
.RE
.RS +4
.TP
.ie t \(bu
.el o
\fIiovcount\fR is greater than  \fBT_IOV_MAX.\fR
.RE
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADFLAG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An invalid flag was specified.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
\fBO_NONBLOCK\fR was set, but the flow control mechanism prevented the
transport provider from accepting any data at this time.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTLOOK\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTNOTSUPPORT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This function is not supported by the underlying transport provider.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTOUTSTATE\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
The communications endpoint referenced by \fIfd\fR is not in one of the states
in which a call to this function is valid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTPROTO\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
This error indicates that a communication problem has been detected between XTI
and the transport provider for which there is no other suitable XTI error
\fB(t_errno)\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTSYSERR\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 15n
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the \fBTLI\fR interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5)  for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBt_getinfo\fR(3NSL), \fBt_open\fR(3NSL), \fBt_rcvv\fR(3NSL)
\fBt_rcv\fR(3NSL), \fBt_snd\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH WARNINGS
.sp
.LP
It is important to remember that the transport provider treats all users of a
transport endpoint as a single user. Therefore if several processes issue
concurrent  \fBt_sndv()\fR or  \fBt_snd\fR(3NSL) calls, then the different data
may be intermixed.
.sp
.LP
Multiple sends which exceed the maximum TSDU or ETSDU size may not be
discovered by XTI.  In this case an implementation-dependent error will result
(generated by the transport provider), perhaps on a subsequent XTI call.  This
error may take the form of a connection abort, a \fBTSYSERR\fR, a
\fBTBADDATA\fR or a \fBTPROTO\fR error.
.sp
.LP
If multiple sends which exceed the maximum TSDU or ETSDU size are detected by
XTI,  \fBt_sndv()\fR fails with \fBTBADDATA\fR.
