.\"
.\" Sun Microsystems, Inc. gratefully acknowledges The Open Group for
.\" permission to reproduce portions of its copyrighted documentation.
.\" Original documentation from The Open Group can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/bookstore/.
.\"
.\" The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and The Open
.\" Group, have given us permission to reprint portions of their
.\" documentation.
.\"
.\" In the following statement, the phrase ``this text'' refers to portions
.\" of the system documentation.
.\"
.\" Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
.\" in the SunOS Reference Manual, from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2004 Edition,
.\" Standard for Information Technology -- Portable Operating System
.\" Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base Specifications Issue 6,
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics
.\" Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.  In the event of any discrepancy
.\" between these versions and the original IEEE and The Open Group
.\" Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee
.\" document.  The original Standard can be obtained online at
.\" http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html.
.\"
.\" This notice shall appear on any product containing this material.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\"
.\" Portions Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" Copyright 1994, The X/Open Company Ltd.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1998, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\"
.TH T_SYSCONF 3NSL "May 7, 1998"
.SH NAME
t_sysconf \- get configurable XTI variables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <xti.h>



\fBint\fR \fBt_sysconf\fR(\fBint\fR\fIname\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The  \fBt_sysconf()\fR function provides a method for the application to
determine the current value of configurable and  implementation-dependent XTI
limits or options.
.sp
.LP
The  \fIname\fR argument represents the XTI system variable to be queried.  The
following table lists the minimal set of XTI system variables from
\fB<xti.h>\fR that can be returned by  \fBt_sysconf()\fR, and the symbolic
constants, defined in  \fB<xti.h>\fR that are the corresponding values used for
\fIname\fR.
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
Variable	Value of Name
_
T_IOV_MAX	_SC_T_IOV_MAX
.TE

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If  \fIname\fR is valid,  \fBt_sysconf()\fR returns the value of the requested
limit/option, which might be  -1, and leaves  \fBt_errno\fR unchanged.
Otherwise, a value of  -1 is returned and  \fBt_errno\fR is set to indicate an
error.
.SH VALID STATES
.sp
.LP
All.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
On failure,  \fBt_errno\fR is set to the following:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBTBADFLAG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 12n
\fIname\fR has an invalid value.
.RE

.SH TLI COMPATIBILITY
.sp
.LP
In the \fBTLI\fR interface definition, no counterpart of this routine was
defined.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsysconf\fR(3C), \fBt_rcvv\fR(3NSL), \fBt_rcvvudata\fR(3NSL),
\fBt_sndv\fR(3NSL), \fBt_sndvudata\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
