'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright 1989 AT&T
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH XDR_SIMPLE 3NSL "Oct 22, 2014"
.SH NAME
xdr_simple, xdr_bool, xdr_char, xdr_double, xdr_enum, xdr_float, xdr_free,
xdr_hyper, xdr_int, xdr_long, xdr_longlong_t, xdr_quadruple, xdr_short,
xdr_u_char, xdr_u_hyper, xdr_u_int, xdr_u_long, xdr_u_longlong_t, xdr_u_short,
xdr_void \- library routines for external data representation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <rpc/xdr.h>



\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_bool\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBbool_t *\fR\fIbp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_char\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIcp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_double\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBdouble *\fR\fIdp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_enum\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBenum_t *\fR\fIep\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_float\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBfloat *\fR\fIfp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBvoid\fR \fBxdr_free\fR(\fBxdrproc_t\fR \fIproc\fR, \fBchar *\fR\fIobjp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_hyper\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBlonglong_t *\fR\fIllp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_int\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBint *\fR\fIip\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_long\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBlongt *\fR\fIlp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_longlong_t\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBlonglong_t *\fR\fIllp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_quadruple\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBlong double *\fR\fIpq\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_short\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBshort *\fR\fIsp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_u_char\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBunsigned char *\fR\fIucp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_u_hyper\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBu_longlong_t *\fR\fIullp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_u_int\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBunsigned *\fR\fIup\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_u_long\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBunsigned long *\fR\fIulp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_u_longlong_t\fR(\fBXDR *\fR\fIxdrs\fR, \fBu_longlong_t *\fR\fIullp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_u_short\fR(\fBXDR\fR \fIxdrs\fR, \fBunsigned short *\fR\fIusp\fR);
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBbool_t\fR \fBxdr_void\fR(void)
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
The \fBXDR\fR library routines allow C programmers to describe simple data
structures in a machine-independent fashion. Protocols such as remote procedure
calls (RPC) use these routines to describe the format of the data.
.sp
.LP
These routines require the creation of \fBXDR\fR streams (see
\fBxdr_create\fR(3NSL)).
.SS "Routines"
.sp
.LP
See \fBrpc\fR(3NSL) for the definition of the  \fBXDR\fR data structure. Note
that any buffers passed to the \fBXDR\fR routines must be properly aligned. It
is suggested that \fBmalloc\fR(3C) be used to allocate these buffers or that
the programmer insure  that the buffer address is divisible evenly by four.
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_bool()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_bool()\fR translates between booleans (C integers) and their external
representations. When encoding data, this filter produces values of either
\fB1\fR or \fB0\fR. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_char()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_char()\fR translates between C characters and their external
representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR
otherwise. Note: encoded characters are not packed, and occupy 4 bytes each.
For arrays of characters, it is worthwhile to consider \fBxdr_bytes()\fR,
\fBxdr_opaque()\fR, or \fBxdr_string()\fR (see \fBxdr_complex\fR(3NSL)).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_double()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_double()\fR translates between C \fBdouble\fR precision numbers and
their external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_enum()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_enum()\fR translates between C \fBenum\fRs (actually integers) and their
external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_float()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_float()\fR translates between C \fBfloat\fRs and their external
representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_free()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
Generic freeing routine. The first argument is the \fBXDR\fR routine for the
object being freed. The second argument is a pointer to the object itself.
Note: the pointer passed to this routine is not freed, but what it points to is
freed (recursively, depending on the XDR routine).
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_hyper()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_hyper()\fR translates between ANSI C  \fBlong\fR \fBlong\fR integers and
their external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_int()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_int()\fR translates between C integers and their external
representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_long()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_long()\fR translates between C \fBlong\fR integers and their external
representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR
otherwise.
.sp
In a 64-bit environment, this routine returns an error if the value of \fBlp\fR
is outside the range \fB[INT32_MIN, INT32_MAX]\fR.  The \fBxdr_int()\fR routine
is recommended in place of this routine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_longlong_t()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_longlong_t()\fR translates between ANSI C  \fBlong\fR \fBlong\fR
integers and their external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if
it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR otherwise. This routine is identical to
\fBxdr_hyper()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_quadruple()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_quadruple()\fR translates between IEEE quadruple precision floating
point numbers and their external representations. This routine returns
\fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_short()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_short()\fR translates between C \fBshort\fR integers and their external
representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR
otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_u_char()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_u_char()\fR translates between \fBunsigned\fR C characters and their
external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_u_hyper()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_u_hyper()\fR translates between unsigned ANSI C  \fBlong\fR \fBlong\fR
integers and their external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if
it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_u_int()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
A filter primitive that translates between a C \fBunsigned\fR integer and its
external representation. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_u_long()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_u_long()\fR translates between C \fBunsigned long\fR integers and their
external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.sp
In a 64-bit environment, this routine returns an error if the value of
\fIulp\fR is outside the range \fB[0, UINT32_MAX]\fR.  The \fBxdr_u_int()\fR
routine is recommended in place of this routine.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_u_longlong_t()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_u_longlong_t()\fR translates between unsigned ANSI C  \fBlong\fR
\fBlong\fR integers and their external representations. This routine returns
\fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds, \fBFALSE\fR otherwise. This routine is identical to
\fBxdr_u_hyper()\fR.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_u_short()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
\fBxdr_u_short()\fR translates between C \fBunsigned short\fR integers and
their external representations. This routine returns \fBTRUE\fR if it succeeds,
\fBFALSE\fR otherwise.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBxdr_void()\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 22n
This routine always returns \fBTRUE\fR. It may be passed to \fBRPC\fR routines
that require a function parameter, where nothing is to be done.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBmalloc\fR(3C), \fBrpc\fR(3NSL), \fBxdr_admin\fR(3NSL),
\fBxdr_complex\fR(3NSL), \fBxdr_create\fR(3NSL), \fBattributes\fR(5)
