.\"
.\" This file and its contents are supplied under the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License ("CDDL"), version 1.0.
.\" You may only use this file in accordance with the terms of version
.\" 1.0 of the CDDL.
.\"
.\" A full copy of the text of the CDDL should have accompanied this
.\" source.  A copy of the CDDL is also available via the Internet at
.\" http://www.illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2012 by Delphix. All rights reserved.
.\"
.Dd May 24, 2026
.Dt RUN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm run
.Nd find, execute, and log the results of tests
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dgq
.Op Fl i Ar testdir
.Op Fl o Ar outputdir
.Op Fl p Ar script
.Op Fl P Ar script
.Op Fl T Ar tags
.Op Fl t Ar seconds
.Op Fl u Ar username
.Op Fl x Ar username
.Op Fl X Ar username
.Ar pathname ...
.Nm
.Fl w Ar runfile
.Op Fl gq
.Op Fl i Ar testdir
.Op Fl o Ar outputdir
.Op Fl p Ar script
.Op Fl P Ar script
.Op Fl T Ar tags
.Op Fl t Ar seconds
.Op Fl u Ar username
.Op Fl x Ar username
.Op Fl X Ar username
.Ar pathname ...
.Nm
.Fl c Ar runfile Ns Op , Ns Ar runfile Ns No ...
.Op Fl dq
.Nm
.Fl l Ar logfile
.Op Fl dgq
.Op Fl i Ar testdir
.Op Fl o Ar outputdir
.Op Fl p Ar script
.Op Fl P Ar script
.Op Fl t Ar seconds
.Op Fl u Ar username
.Op Fl x Ar username
.Op Fl X Ar username
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command has four basic modes of operation.
With none of the
.Fl c ,
.Fl l ,
or
.Fl w
options,
.Nm
processes the arguments provided on the command line, adding them to the list
for this run.
If a specified
.Ar pathname
is an executable file, it is added as a test.
If a specified
.Ar pathname
is a directory, the behavior depends upon the
.Fl g
option.
If
.Fl g
is specified, the directory is treated as a test group.
See the section on
.Sx Test Groups
below.
Without the
.Fl g
option,
.Nm
simply descends into the directory looking for executable files.
The tests are then executed, and the results are logged.
.Pp
With the
.Fl w
option,
.Nm
finds tests in the manner described above.
Rather than executing the tests and logging the results, the test
configuration is stored in a
.Ar runfile
which can be used in future invocations, or edited to modify which tests are
executed and which options are applied.
Options included on the command line with
.Fl w
become defaults in the
.Ar runfile .
.Pp
With the
.Fl c
option,
.Nm
parses one or more
.Ar runfile Ns s,
which can specify a series of tests and test groups to be executed.
The tests are then executed, and the results are logged.
.Pp
With the
.Fl l
option,
.Nm
reads a log file produced by a previous invocation and re-executes only the
tests that failed.
This is useful for iterating on a failing subset without re-running the entire
test suite.
.Ss Test Groups
A test group is comprised of a set of executable files, all of which exist in
one directory.
The options specified on the command line or in a
.Ar runfile
apply to individual tests in the group.
The exception is options pertaining to pre and post scripts, which act on all
tests as a group.
Rather than running before and after each test, these scripts are run only
once each at the start and end of the test group.
.Ss Test Execution
The specified tests run serially, and are typically assigned results according
to exit values.
Tests that exit zero and non-zero are marked
.Qq PASS
and
.Qq FAIL
respectively.
When a pre script fails for a test group, only the post script is executed,
and the remaining tests are marked
.Qq SKIPPED .
Any test that exceeds its
.Ar timeout
is terminated, and marked
.Qq KILLED .
.Pp
By default, tests are executed with the credentials of the
.Nm
script.
Executing tests with other credentials is done via
.Xr sudo 8 ,
which must be configured to allow execution without prompting for a password.
Environment variables from the calling shell are available to individual tests.
During test execution, the working directory is changed to
.Ar outputdir .
.Ss Output Logging
By default,
.Nm
will print one line on standard output at the conclusion of each test
indicating the test name, result and elapsed time.
Additionally, for each invocation of
.Nm ,
a directory is created using the ISO 8601 date format.
Within this directory is a file named
.Pa log
containing all the test output with timestamps, and a directory for each test.
Within the test directories, there is one file each for standard output,
standard error and merged output.
The default location for the
.Ar outputdir
is
.Pa /var/tmp/test_results .
.Ss Runfiles
The
.Ar runfile
is an ini style configuration file that describes a test run.
The file has one section named
.Qq DEFAULT ,
which contains configuration option names and their values in
.Qq name = value
format.
The values in this section apply to all the subsequent sections, unless they
are also specified there, in which case the default is overridden.
The remaining section names are the absolute pathnames of files and
directories, describing tests and test groups respectively.
The legal option names are:
.Bl -tag -width "post_user"
.It Cm outputdir No = Ar pathname
The name of the directory that holds test logs.
.It Cm pre No = Ar script
Run
.Ar script
prior to the test or test group.
.It Cm pre_user No = Ar username
Execute the pre script as
.Ar username .
.It Cm post No = Ar script
Run
.Ar script
after the test or test group.
.It Cm post_user No = Ar username
Execute the post script as
.Ar username .
.It Cm quiet No = Cm True Ns | Ns Cm False
If set to True, only the results summary is printed to standard out.
.It Cm tests No = No [\(aq Ns Ar filename Ns No \(aq No [, ...]]
Specify a list of
.Ar filenames
for this test group.
Only the basename of the absolute path is required.
This option is only valid for test groups, and each
.Ar filename
must be single quoted.
.It Cm timeout No = Ar n
A timeout value of
.Ar n
seconds.
.It Cm user No = Ar username
Execute the test or test group as
.Ar username .
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are available for the
.Nm
command.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar runfile Ns Op , Ns Ar runfile No ...
Specify one or more
.Ar runfile Ns s
.Pq comma-separated
defining tests and configuration.
.It Fl d
Dry run mode.
Execute no tests, but print a description of each test that would have been
run.
.It Fl g
Create test groups from any directories found while searching for tests.
.It Fl h
Print a usage summary and exit.
.It Fl i Ar testdir
Specify the directory from which tests are found when no
.Ar pathname
arguments are given.
.It Fl l Ar logfile
Read
.Ar logfile
from a previous run and re-execute only the tests that failed.
.It Fl o Ar outputdir
Specify the directory in which to write test results.
.It Fl p Ar script
Run
.Ar script
prior to any test or test group.
.It Fl P Ar script
Run
.Ar script
after any test or test group.
.It Fl q
Print only the results summary to the standard output.
.It Fl t Ar n
Specify a timeout value of
.Ar n
seconds per test.
.It Fl T Ar tags
Execute only test groups whose tags match the comma-separated list of
.Ar tags .
.It Fl u Ar username
Execute tests or test groups as
.Ar username .
.It Fl w Ar runfile
Specify the name of the
.Ar runfile
to create.
.It Fl x Ar username
Execute the pre script as
.Ar username .
.It Fl X Ar username
Execute the post script as
.Ar username .
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It 0
All tests passed.
.It 1
One or more tests failed or an error occurred.
.It 2
One or more tests were killed due to exceeding the timeout.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -enum
.It
Running ad-hoc tests.
.Pp
This example demonstrates the simplest invocation of
.Nm .
.Bd -literal
% run my-tests
Test: /home/jkennedy/my-tests/test-01  [00:02] [PASS]
Test: /home/jkennedy/my-tests/test-02  [00:04] [PASS]
Test: /home/jkennedy/my-tests/test-03  [00:01] [PASS]

Results Summary
PASS       3

Running Time:   00:00:07
Percent passed: 100.0%
Log directory:  /var/tmp/test_results/20120923T180654
.Ed
.It
Creating a
.Ar runfile
for future use.
.Pp
This example demonstrates creating a
.Ar runfile
with non default options.
.Bd -literal
% run -p setup -x root -g -w new-tests.run new-tests
% cat new-tests.run
[DEFAULT]
pre = setup
post_user =
quiet = False
user =
timeout = 60
post =
pre_user = root
outputdir = /var/tmp/test_results

[/home/jkennedy/new-tests]
tests = ['test-01', 'test-02', 'test-03']
.Ed
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sudo 8
