'\" te
.\" Copyright 2014 Nexenta Systems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" Copyright (c) 2005, Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ACL_TRIVIAL 3SEC "Nov 24, 2014"
.SH NAME
acl_trivial \- determine whether a file has a trivial ACL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR\&.\|.\|. ] \fIfile\fR\&.\|.\|. \fB-lsec\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR\&.\|.\|. ]
#include <sys/acl.h>

\fBint\fR \fBacl_trivial\fR(\fBchar *\fR\fIpath\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBacl_trivial()\fR function is used to determine whether a file has a
trivial ACL. Whether an ACL is trivial depends on the type of the ACL. A POSIX
draft ACL is trivial if it does not have more than \fBMIN_ACL_ENTRIES\fR
entries. An NFSv4/ZFS-style ACL is trivial if it does not have entries other
than \fBowner@\fR, \fBgroup@\fR, and \fBeveryone@\fR, does not have inheritance
flags set, and is ordered in a manner that meets POSIX access control
requirements.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
Upon successful completion, \fBacl_trivial()\fR returns 0 if the file's ACL is
trivial and 1 if the file's ACL is not trivial. If it could not be determined
whether a file's ACL is trivial, -1 is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
The \fBacl_trivial()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEACCES\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A file's ACL could not be read.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 10n
A component of \fIpath\fR does not name an existing file or \fIpath\fR is an
empty string.
.RE

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
Interface Stability	Evolving
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
\fBacl\fR(5), \fBattributes\fR(5)
