'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH GMATCH 3GEN "Dec 29, 1996"
.SH NAME
gmatch \- shell global pattern matching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cc [ \fIflag\fR ... ] \fIfile\fR ... \fB-lgen\fR [ \fIlibrary\fR ... ]
#include <libgen.h>

\fBint\fR \fBgmatch\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIstr\fR, \fBconst char *\fR\fIpattern\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBgmatch()\fR checks whether the null-terminated string \fIstr\fR matches the
null-terminated pattern string \fIpattern\fR. See the \fBsh\fR(1), section
\fBFile Name Generation\fR, for a discussion of pattern matching. A backslash
(\fB\e\fR) is used as an escape character in pattern strings.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
\fBgmatch()\fR returns non-zero if the pattern matches the string, zero if the
pattern does not.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRExamples of \fBgmatch()\fR function.
.sp
.LP
In the following example, \fBgmatch()\fR returns non-zero (true) for all
strings with "\fBa\fR" or "\fB-\fR" as their last character.

.sp
.in +2
.nf
char *s;
gmatch (s, "*[a\e-]" )
.fi
.in -2

.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsh\fR(1), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the \fB_REENTRANT\fR flag must be
defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in multithreaded
applications.
