'\" te
.\"  Copyright 1989 AT&T  Copyright (c) 1997, Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All Rights Reserved
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").  You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.  If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.TH ISENCRYPT 3GEN "Dec 29, 1996"
.SH NAME
isencrypt \- determine whether a buffer of characters is encrypted
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBcc\fR  [\fIflag\fR]... [\fIfile\fR]... \fB-lgen\fR [\fIlibrary\fR]...
.fi

.LP
.nf
#include<libgen.h>

\fBint\fR \fBisencrypt\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfbuf\fR, \fBsize_t\fR \fIninbuf\fR);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
\fBisencrypt()\fR uses heuristics to determine whether a buffer of characters
is encrypted. It requires two arguments: a pointer to an array of characters
and the number of characters in the buffer.
.sp
.LP
\fBisencrypt()\fR assumes that the file is not encrypted if all the characters
in the first block are \fBASCII\fR characters. If there are non-\fBASCII\fR
characters in the first \fIninbuf\fR characters, and if the \fBsetlocale()\fR
\fBLC_CTYPE\fR category is set to \fBC\fR or \fBascii\fR, \fBisencrypt()\fR
assumes that the buffer is encrypted
.sp
.LP
If the \fBLC_CTYPE\fR category is set to a value other than \fBC\fR or
\fBascii\fR, then \fBisencrypt()\fR uses a combination of heuristics to
determine if the buffer is encrypted. If \fIninbuf\fR has at least 64
characters, a chi-square test is used to determine if the bytes in the buffer
have a uniform distribution; if it does, then \fBisencrypt()\fR assumes the
buffer is encrypted.  If the buffer has less than 64 characters, a check is
made for null characters and a terminating  new-line to determine whether the
buffer is encrypted.
.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
If the buffer is encrypted,  \fB1\fR is returned; otherwise, zero is returned.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
.sp
.LP
See \fBattributes\fR(5) for descriptions of the following attributes:
.sp

.sp
.TS
box;
c | c
l | l .
ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
_
MT-Level	MT-Safe
.TE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBsetlocale\fR(3C), \fBattributes\fR(5)
.SH NOTES
.sp
.LP
When compiling multithreaded applications, the \fB_REENTRANT\fR flag must be
defined on the compile line.  This flag should only be used in multithreaded
applications.
